Creating a Chef Repository
==========================

Create a Chef Repository on your Workstation
--------------------------------------------

The following directions will create a Chef repository--a folder on your
local workstation from which you can manage your infrastructure.
(Advanced users may find is productive to deviate from the basic setup
outlined in these directions.)

### Copy the skeleton Chef Repository available on Github

#### Using Git

Using git, we can create a chef repository by cloning a skeleton
repository provided by Opscode:

    cd ~
    git clone git://github.com/opscode/chef-repo.git

This command will create a folder called `chef-repo` in your home
directory. You can clone the repository to a different directory using a
command such as:

    git clone git://github.com/opscode/chef-repo.git /path/to/alternate/directory

#### Without Git

If you do not have git, you can copy the skeleton repository using
standard unix tools:

    cd ~
    curl https://nodeload.github.com/opscode/chef-repo/tarball/master > chef-repo.tgz
    tar xvf chef-repo.tgz 
    mv -i opscode-chef-repo-a3bec38/ chef-repo

### Create a Configuration Folder

    mkdir -p ~/chef-repo/.chef

Now, we need to copy the necessary keys and knife configuration into
this directory.

**For Hosted and Private Chef customers**, USERNAME.pem can be generated
from your [Opscode Community profile](http://community.opscode.com/);
ORGANIZATION-validator.pem and knife.rb can be generated from the
organizations picker in [Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com/). Generate and download these files
and then install them as follows:

    cp USERNAME.pem ~/chef-repo/.chef
    cp ORGANIZATION-validator.pem ~/chef-repo/.chef
    cp knife.rb ~/chef-repo/.chef

where ORGANIZATION should be replaced with your organizations short name
and USERNAME should be replaced by your Hosted Chef username. Note, that
the paths to `USERNAME.pem`, `ORGANIZATION-validator.pem`, and
`knife.rb` should be change to the path to which they were downloaded.

**For those using the Open Source Chef Server**, you first need to
create an admin client for use with knife.  
 Directions for creating an admin client can be found in [the
post-install section of the server
configuration](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Installing+Chef+Server+Manually#InstallingChefServerManually-ConfiguretheCommandLineClient).
The validator client key used in that step can be copied to the
workstation system from /etc/chef or after it is copied to \~/.chef on
the Chef Server system. Once you have an admin client, copy the user's
private key and the validator's private key into your chef repository:

    cp USERNAME.pem ~/chef-repo/.chef
    cp validation.pem ~/chef-repo/.chef

Now, you can then create a knife configuration file using the following
command:

    knife configure

`knife configure` will prompt you for information regarding your admin
client as well as your chef server.

### Confirm your configuration is working

To confirm that your configuration is working, attempt to run a simple
knife command

    knife client list
