Evaluate and Run Resources at Compile Time
==========================================

  

![image](../attachments/7897335/14876697.jpg)

#### Chef processes recipes in two phases, [Compile](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html#AnatomyofaChefRun-CompileResourceCollection) and [Execute](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html#AnatomyofaChefRun-ConfigureNode).

###### 1. During the [compile](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html#AnatomyofaChefRun-CompileResourceCollection) phase, the recipes are evaluated as Ruby code and recognized resources are added to the resource collection.

###### 2. During the [execute](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html#AnatomyofaChefRun-ConfigureNode) phase, Chef takes the appropriate [Provider](Providers.html "Providers") action on each resource.

#### This is the normal way Chef runs, but sometimes you want to make sure that a resource is configured before anything else.

###### You do this by setting up a `Chef::Resource` object of the appropriate resource type, and then calling the method that runs the action.

  
  

### Example One: Update Package Cache

It is important to make sure that your operating system's package cache
is up to date before Chef tries to install packages, otherwise it might
have stale references to versions that don't exist anymore. For example,
on Debian and Ubuntu systems, the APT cache needs to be updated.

    e = execute "apt-get update" do
      action :nothing
    end

    e.run_action(:run)

This creates `e` as a "`Chef::Resource::Execute`" Ruby object. The
action is set to nothing because we're going to call the `run_action`
method to tell Chef to run the specified command.

Opscode provides a cookbook for doing this with
[apt](http://cookbooks.opscode.com/cookbooks/apt) (Debian/Ubuntu) and
[pacman](http://cookbooks.opscode.com/cookbooks/pacman) (ArchLinux). Put
the recipe at the top of your node's run list to ensure it happens
before Chef tries to install your packages.   
  

### Example Two: Installing a RubyGem to use later

One of the goals of Chef is that a single run should completely
configure a system. One of the features of Chef is that it uses Ruby as
the recipe language, which means you can do anything in
[Recipes](Recipes.html "Recipes") that you can do in Ruby.

However, you might need to install a RubyGem first. For example, if you
would like to interact with a MySQL database in a recipe directly with
Ruby, you can do that by using the Compile phase resource creation.

    g = gem_package "mysql" do
      action :nothing
    end

    g.run_action(:install)

    Gem.clear_paths
    require 'mysql'

Just like the earlier example, we're creating a new Ruby object. This
time, "`Chef::Resource::Package`" using the Rubygems provider. Do note
that in this case the `mysql` RubyGem compiles native extensions in C,
so you'll need to have the appropriate packages for your OS installed.
We introduce two new lines at the end here. The first, `Gem.clear_paths`
ensures that Chef reloads the cache of available Rubygems. The second
loads the mysql gem so it can be used to connect to a MySQL database.   
  

### Example Three: An Anti-Pattern

Unfortunately, resources executed during compile-time cannot notify
resources which still remain to be placed in the Resource Collection and
executed,  
 as in the following example

    execute "ifconfig"

    p = package 'vim-enhanced' do
       action :nothing
       notifies :run, "execute[ifconfig]", :immediately
    end
    p.run_action(:install)

In fact, you might just choose to install the package during
compile-time, and then know that it will be there and control the run of
the execute resource based on its presence or absence.  
 Alternatively, you could do something like this as a workaround

    p = package "foo" do
       #parameters
    end
    p.run_action(:install)

    if p.updated_by_last_action?
      #Call the resource that we want to "notify"   
    end

  
  
  
  

  
