CouchDB Administration for Chef Server
======================================

![image](../attachments/6357032/16187408.jpg)

Overview
========

##### This page gives some guidance on how to maintain and troubleshoot a CouchDB installation for the [Chef Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server").

It is not meant to be comprehensive, merely to cover the common topics
that users will encounter when working with CouchDB and Chef.

  

*For full details about CouchDB, please see its [project
page](http://couchdb.apache.org).*

RESTful API
===========

CouchDB has a [RESTful API](http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/Reference).
This means you can interact with it using any tool that speaks HTTP. For
example, curl.

    % curl http://localhost:5984
    {"couchdb":"Welcome","version":"0.10.0"}

    % curl http://localhost:5984/chef
    {"db_name":"chef","doc_count":36,"doc_del_count":177,"update_seq":66256,"purge_seq":0, /joined with next line/
    "compact_running":false,"disk_size":28434524,"instance_start_time":"1273693455462751","disk_format_version":4}

Compaction
==========

CouchDB stores a revision for every document when it is updated. When
the [Chef Client](Chef%20Client.html "Chef Client") runs, it saves the
node data to the server multiple times. Each time it saves, CouchDB
creates a new revision. Over time with a number of clients, this can add
up and cause the CouchDB database to become quite large.

CouchDB has a feature called
[Compaction](http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/Compaction) that can be used
to remove older revisions of documents. To compact a growing database,
use curl to POST on the server:

    % curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:5984/chef/_compact
    {"ok":true}

    % curl http://localhost:5984/chef                 
    {"db_name":"chef","doc_count":36,"doc_del_count":177,"update_seq":66256,"purge_seq":0, /joined with next line/
    "compact_running":false,"disk_size":507996,"instance_start_time":"1273761005173758","disk_format_version":4}

Since this is a common thing to do on a [Chef
Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server"), the [Opscode chef-server
cookbook](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/chef-server) does this
in its default recipe.

Use of the Opscode chef-server cookbook means that every time Chef runs
on the [Chef Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server") with the default
[Recipe for CouchDB
compaction](https://github.com/opscode-cookbooks/chef-server/blob/master/recipes/default.rb),
it will compact the database. In addition to compacting the database,
the default recipe also compacts the views.

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/forbidden.gif)

**Compact the Views**  
If you are managing the CouchDB compaction yourself (*rather than using
the [chef-server
cookbook](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/chef-server) cookbook
to compact the database and the views*), be sure to run compaction on
the individual views as well as the database.

The [Opscode chef-server
cookbook](http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/chef-server) contains
the [default
recipe](https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/blob/master/chef-server/recipes/default.rb)
which compacts both the database and the views. You can review it as an
example on one method for compacting the views. *Without compaction, the
views may eventually consume all available disk space.*

Administrative Interface
========================

CouchDB comes with a web interface for administration. It can be
accessed via
[http://localhost:5984/\_utils](http://localhost:5984/_utils). Obviously
since this is running on localhost by default, it won't be accessible
from your management workstation, so create an SSH tunnel to the server
to forward the port. If your Chef server is `chef.example.com`:

    ssh -L 5984:localhost:5984 chef.example.com

Then point your local system's web browser to
[http://localhost:5984/\_utils](http://localhost:5984/_utils).

Client/Node ID from CouchDB
===========================

To get the ID of a client/node from CouchDB execute

    curl -s http://localhost:5984/chef/_design/nodes/_view/all_id | grep NODE_OR_CLIENT_NAME

The returned data should look something like

    {"id":"e497412a-f4be-4e73-affe-e5c0d557c94d","key":"lucid1test","value":"lucid1test"}

  
  
  
  

  

wheezy and sid users, debian provides couchdb 1.1.1 compiled with
--enable-js-trunk.  
 recent spidermonkey doesn't work well with couchdb 1.1.1 and chef (see
[http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-2827?focusedCommentId=21164&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel\#comment-21164](http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-2827?focusedCommentId=21164&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-21164))  
 you'll have to recompile it without this option. (remove
--enable-js-trunk from debian/rules, and replace libmozjs-dev by
libmozjs185-dev in debian/control, you might also want to edit the
debian/changelog before rebuilding your own package)

squeeze users might encounter this issue :
[https://gist.github.com/1726030](https://gist.github.com/1726030) (it
looks like
[https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-893](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/COUCHDB-893))  
 I've managed to workaround the issue by using the couchdb replicator to
copy from my 0.11.0 server to a new 1.1.1 server. (iow, i had to upgrade
to couchdb 1.1.1)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by laurent at Feb 04, 2012
01:08
