The Different Flavors of Chef
=============================

![image](../attachments/7274866/20840552.jpg)

### One size doesn't fit all. There is an Opscode Chef product that can work *for you*.

Chef Solo
=========

[Chef Solo](Chef%20Solo.html "Chef Solo") is an open source standalone
version of Chef that runs locally on your node, detached from a Chef
server. This means that all the information and
[Cookbooks](Cookbooks.html "Cookbooks") required to configure the node
have to be present on the local disk. They can be retrieved via a remote
URL with a command-line or config file option.

Chef Client and Chef Server
===========================

The open source [Chef Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server") is a
client/server delivery of Chef functionality and power. [Chef
Client](Chef%20Client.html "Chef Client") is a Chef agent that runs
locally on the systems ("nodes") you are managing with Chef. Chef-client
connects to a Chef Server to be told what to do on the node. This allows
for more dynamic and flexible configuration management. For example,
nodes can have roles applied to sets of them for consistency, and they
can query information stored centrally on the server by other nodes, to
dynamically configure themselves according to changing conditions
elsewhere in your infrastructure.

Hosted Chef
===========

Opscode's [Hosted Chef](http://www.opscode.com/hosted-chef/) combines
the freedom and flexibility of Chef with the reliability and speed of
Opscode. Hosted Chef is a highly available, scalable Chef Server in the
cloud, plus additional features, such as fine-grained role-based access
control. It is also the world's first configuration management platform
delivered as a service (PaaS). This means that it is easier than ever to
start using Chef to manage your infrastructure. As with Chef-Server,
Chef-client connects to Hosted Chef to be told what to do on the local
node: enabling you to automate your infrastructure, without having to
setup and manage your own Chef-Server.

Private Chef
============

The power and speed of Opscode. The freedom and flexibility of Chef.
Completely customized for your business. [Private
Chef](http://www.opscode.com/private-chef/) is for Enterprises who want
the power, flexibility, availability, and performance of Hosted Chef,
but require that information never leave their private networks.

  
  
  

  
