Chef Core Principles
====================

![image](../attachments/19070998/19005443.png)

### Chef is idempotent

You can run Chef recipes multiple times on the same system and the
resulting system will always return to an identical state. In Chef,
resources are defined in recipes and describe actions to be performed on
the system. Chef ensures that actions are not performed if the resources
have not changed. If you rerun a Chef recipe on a system and nothing has
changed either on the system or in the recipe, Chef doesn't change
anything.

### Thick Clients, Thin Server

Chef does as much work as possible on the Chef Clients. The Chef Server
is built to handle the easy distribution of data to the clients - the
recipes to build, templates to render, files to transfer - along with
storing the state of each Node. This orientation makes for a system that
is easy to scale and extend - the work of deciding how to configure your
infrastructure is distributed throughout your infrastructure, rather
than centralized on set of configuration management servers.

### Order Matters

![image](../attachments/19070998/20840537.jpg)

When you are configuring systems, order matters. If you have not
installed Apache, you can't start configuring it, and you certainly
can't start the daemon. Configuration management tools have been
struggling with this problem for years. Nodes in Chef apply lists of
recipes, which in turn specify resources. Within a recipe, resources are
applied in the order they appear. At any point in a recipe, you can
include any other recipe - assuring that all of its resources are
applied before continuing (Chef is smart enough never to apply the same
recipe twice.) You specify dependencies only at the recipe level, not
the resource level. This means that you only track dependencies between
high level concepts - "I need Apache installed before I can start my
Django Application". It also means that, given the same set of
Cookbooks, Chef will always execute your resources in the same order.

### Reasonability

Chef is designed to be easy to think about, easily changed and easy to
extend. Chef assumes that you know best how your infrastructure is put
together. Therefore, Chef makes as few decisions for you as possible,
and when it does, it's easy to make it change its mind. When Chef does
make decisions it sets reasonable defaults that can be easily changed.
Moreover, Chef is pragmatic and opinion-less relying less on theory or
dogma and more on deterministic results. This is why Chef uses Ruby as
its reference language with extended DSL for specific resources. Chef
provides a reasonable set of base primitives (i.e., resources) to
automate an infrastructure; however, it also provides an easy way to
modify and extend the base (via Ruby) â€“ because ...
[TMTOWTDI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There's_more_than_one_way_to_do_it).

  
  
  

  
