Managing Roles through the Management Console
=============================================

  

### The Management Console allows users to create, read, update, and delete roles.

Listing Roles
-------------

To list roles:

1. Log on to the Management Console.

2. Click `Roles` on the main navigation menu.

Viewing a Role
--------------

Viewing a role shows the recipes and roles included in the role, as well
as a tree view of the attributes associated with the role.

In order to view a specific role, on the roles page, click the link of
the specific role you want to view.

Creating a Role
---------------

The role creation page allows you to add recipes and roles to the role
you are editing. There is also a JSON editor for editing, adding and
removing JSON attributes associated with the role.

In order to create a role:

1. Login to the Management Console and navigate to the `Roles` tab.

2. Click `Create` on the sub navigation bar.

3. Give the role a name and an optional description.

4. Continue onto editing the role, as described in the next section.
Continue with your normal edit steps and click "Create Role" to save the
new role.

Editing a Role
--------------

  
![image](../attachments/7275159/7634960.png)   

**NOTE: In any of the following actions where a drag is involved, you
must drag the item to the lighter grey area of the target list.**

  
![image](../attachments/7275159/7634961.png)   

1. To add a role to the role being edited, drag it from "Available
Roles" to "Run List".

2. To add a recipe to the role being edited, drag it from "Available
Recipes" to "Run List".

3. To remove a role or recipe from the role being edited, drag it from
the "Run List" back to the respective "Available" section.

4. Click `Save Role` to save.

### Modifying Role Default and Override Attributes

You can edit the override attributes of a role, to override the values
of an included recipe or role, and you can edit the default attributes
of a role to specify attributes that do not exist in included recipes
and roles. To do this, click "json" from the "Default and Override
Attributes" tree on the bottom left. Then, click the Editor tab on the
right, click the green add button under the Editor tab, enter a name as
the key and a body as the value and click "Add Attribute". The following
figures show the Default and Override Attributes tree and the JSON
editor.

  
![image](../attachments/7275159/7634962.png)   

#### Using the Source tab

1. Enter the JSON body of your role in the editor, and click the "Load
JSON from source" button.

2. Click the Create Role or Save Role button to save the role. The
following figure shows an example.

  
![image](../attachments/7275159/7634963.png)   

Deleting a Role
---------------

In order to delete a role:

1. Login to the Management Console and navigate to the Roles tab.

2. Click the `Delete` link next to the name of the role you want to
delete, and click `OK` on the confirmation message box. Or, click the
role to view its details, and click `Delete` on the sub navigation menu.
  
  
  
  
  

  
