Knife Exec
==========

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/8683551/21463220)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/8683551/EXEC_avain.png)

Overview
========

##### The `knife exec` subcommand allows you to write Ruby scripts that are executed in the context of a fully configured Chef API Client using the knife configuration file. Knife exec scripts also share the same DSL as [Shef's](Shef.html "Shef") main mode - any commands available in the top-level of shef `help` output are available.

  
 The purpose of Knife Exec is slightly different than [Knife
Plugins](Knife%20Plugins.html "Knife Plugins"). *This sub-command is
often used for scripts that should access the Chef Server API for
one-off type operations and don't warrant full blown Knife sub-command
usage.*

##### Note the Context

As you are writing Ruby scripts that are executed in the context of a
fully configured Chef API Client using the knife configuration file, the
following are some details of note:

-   The script lives on your management workstation, not the nodes.
    (i.e. on the system from which you are invoking knife, not on the
    systems that you are managing with chef)
    -   The context of shell commands issued will therefore be your
        management workstation.
    -   Something like `%x[ls -lash /opt/only-on-a-node]` would give you
        the directory listing for your /opt/only-on-a-node directory, or
        the error "no such file exists" if the directory does not exist
        locally.

-   While the [Shef's](Shef.html "Shef") DSL is available, the
    chef-client DSL is not
    -   Unless your management workstation is also a chef-client being
        managed by the chef-server.
    -   Without the chef-client DSL, you cannot use a bash block to run
        bash commands.

Invocation
==========

##### Invoke knife exec in one of three ways to write scripts.

    knife exec /path/to/script_file

    knife exec -E 'RUBY CODE'

    knife exec
    RUBY CODE
    ^D

Examples
========

### Some one-line examples

List the search indexes available.

    knife exec -E 'puts api.get("search").keys'

Show all the nodes and their free memory available.

    knife exec -E 'nodes.all {|n| puts "#{n.name} has #{n.memory.total} free memory"}'

  

[Overview](#KnifeExec-Overview)

[Invocation](#KnifeExec-Invocation)

[Examples](#KnifeExec-Examples)

-   [Some one-line examples](#KnifeExec-Someonelineexamples)
-   [More detailed examples](#KnifeExec-Moredetailedexamples)

[Passing Arguments to Knife
Scripts](#KnifeExec-PassingArgumentstoKnifeScripts)

[Use Case Scenario](#KnifeExec-UseCaseScenario)

  

#### Tutorials from the Community

* * * * *

-   **Knife Exec to Search for Systems Needing Updates**

Opscode team member [Bryan
McLellan](http://community.opscode.com/users/btm) wrote a blog post on
**[Knife Reporting: apt +
updates](http://blog.loftninjas.org/2011/01/12/knife-reporting-apt-updates/)**,
using a Knife exec script to search for and describe systems needing
updates.

*This blog is helpful for knowing how to issue shell commands in the
context of your managed nodes.*

-   **Knife Exec + Fog to Reconcile EC2 Instances**

Community member [James
Sulinski](http://community.opscode.com/users/jsulinski) has a most
excellent blog post on using Knife Exec and Fog and Highline gems to
**[reconcile the EC2 and Chef
APIâ€™s](http://blog.aegisco.com/index.php/2011/03/30/12/)** and output it
in a way which provides a beneficial overview. (Code -
[knife.reconcile](https://gist.github.com/4fc3931ed8448180ae37))

-   **Command-line Cookbook Dependency Solving with Knife Exec**

Need to replicate a node setup elsewhere, and aren't sure of all the
cookbook dependencies? Or, just want to validate that you've uploaded
all the cookbooks that are stated as being required?

Community member [Stephen
Nelson-Smith](http://community.opscode.com/users/atalanta) has a blog
post on **[Dependency
Solving](http://agilesysadmin.net/chef-dependencies)** using [Knife
Exec]( "Knife Exec").

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/8683551/21463145.png) Knife Windows
Bootstrap](Knife%20Windows%20Bootstrap.html "Knife Windows Bootstrap")

[![image](../attachments/8683551/21463144.png) Launch Cloud Instances
with
Knife](Launch%20Cloud%20Instances%20with%20Knife.html "Launch Cloud Instances with Knife")

  
  

  
