Managing Organizations with the Hosted Chef Management Console
==============================================================

  

### Manage your organizations with the Management Console

-   Selecting the Organization
-   Creating an Organization
-   Adding or Removing a User from an Organization
-   Regenerating the Private Key and the Knife Config

-   **To follow these directions, first [log into the Hosted Chef
    Management
    Console](Managing%20your%20Account%20and%20Billing%20Information.html#ManagingyourAccountandBillingInformation-LogintotheManagementConsole)
    with your existing username.** If you have not signed up for an
    account yet, follow the directions on the [Setup Opscode User and
    Organization](Setup%20Opscode%20User%20and%20Organization.html "Setup Opscode User and Organization")
    page.

-   **If you're interested in editing account, nodes or other data in
    the Management Console instead, return to [Hosted Chef Management
    Console](Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html "Hosted Chef Management Console"),
    and make the appropriate selection.**

Selecting an Organization to Use
--------------------------------

A user is allowed to be associated with multiple organizations. When
there are multiple orgs, you can select which organization to use from
the list of associated organizations in the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com). Subsequent actions will be scoped
to that organization.

To see which organization is currently selected, or to view the list of
associated organizations:

1. Log into the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com)

2. Click *organizations* in the upper right of the screen, next to your
username.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086816.png)

3. On the Organizations page, click the *Select* link next to the
organization you want to select to use. If there are no associated
organizations listed, please make sure your user account is associated
with an organization or contact Opscode Support.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086877.png)

Creating an Organization
------------------------

In order to create a new organization:

1. Log in to the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com) using your existing username.

2. Go to the *Organizations* page. If you do not have an organization
associated with your user, you are on that page automatically.
Otherwise, click the *Organizations* link on the upper right corner.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086816.png)

3. On the *Organizations* page, click *Create*.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086878.png)

4. Enter a full name and a short name. The short name is like an account
name for your new organization, only lower case a-z, -, and \_ are
supported. You cannot use spaces in the short name.

5. Select your desired billing plan to create your organization.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086883.jpg)

6. If you selected any of the non-free billing plans in the previous
step, you will be prompted to enter your billing information at this
time. Please do so before you proceed.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086885.png)

7. Download your validation key and a sample Knife configuration file.
You need to use the validation key to register new clients using this
organization. The Knife configuration file allows you to start using
Chef's command-line tool, [Knife](Knife.html "Knife"), immediately.

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086882.jpg)

If you will be using [Knife](Knife.html "Knife"), be sure to download
the [User's Private
Key](Managing%20Users%20and%20your%20Private%20Key%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html#ManagingUsersandyourPrivateKeywiththeHostedChefManagementConsole-DownloadingandUsingyourPrivateKey)
as well.

Adding or Removing a User from an Org
-------------------------------------

If you want other users to be able to access the organization with
[Knife](Knife.html "Knife") or the REST API, you will need to add them
to the organization with the [correct
permissions](Managing%20Permissions%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html "Managing Permissions with the Hosted Chef Management Console")
so they are authorized to make changes to it.

### Associate a user to the organization

In order to associate a user with the current organization:

1. Ask them to sign up for a [Hosted Chef
account](https://cookbooks.opscode.com/users/new) and give you their
username.

2. Log on to the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com) and select an organization to use if
you are associated with multiple organizations.

3. Click the *Users* tab in the main navigation menu.

4. Click *Invite* in the sub-menu

5. Enter the users you want to associate to the organization shown,
separated by comma if there is more than one. And then click on the
*Invite* button:

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086876.png)

Afterwards you should see this user appear in the Pending User Invites
section of the *Users* tab.

6. Ask the user to log into their account to accept the invite.

7. The user will need to click on *organizations* in the upper right
hand corner. Then they can click on the *Accept* link next to the invite
at the bottom of the page:

![image](../attachments/19923212/20086860.png)

**Note:** You need [update
permissions](Managing%20Permissions%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html "Managing Permissions with the Hosted Chef Management Console")
on the organization to be able to associate a user with the
organization. Users in the admins group have update permissions by
default.

### Remove a user from the organization

In order to dissociate a user from the current organization:

1. Log on to the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com) and select an organization to use if
you are associated with multiple organizations.

2. Click the *Users* tab in the main navigation menu.

3. Click *Dissociate* next to the username. Click *OK* on the warning
message box.

**Note:** You need [update
permissions](Managing%20Permissions%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html "Managing Permissions with the Hosted Chef Management Console")
on the organization to be able to dissociate a user from the
organization. Users in the admins group have update permissions by
default.

Regenerating the Private Key and the Knife Config
-------------------------------------------------

The private key for the organization is also referred to as the
validation key and is used to authenticate with both
[Knife](Knife.html "Knife") and chef-client. Regenerating the key will
be useful if you have lost the organization's private key, if the
private key has been exposed to someone you don't want to have access to
your Hosted Chef account, or if you wish to regularly rotate keys for
security purposes.

You can also download a default [Knife](Knife.html "Knife") config on
the same page.

In order to download the private key and the knife.rb file:

1. Log into the [Hosted Chef Management
Console](http://manage.opscode.com)

2. Click *organizations* in the upper right of the screen, next to your
username.

3. On the Organizations page, click the *Regenerate validation key* and
the *Generate knife config* links to regenerate the private key and
download a [Knife](Knife.html "Knife") config file. If there are no
associated organizations listed, please make sure your user account is
associated with an organization or contact Opscode Support.

![image](images/icons/emoticons/forbidden.gif)

Due to a bug with some browsers, the file may be named
"\_regenerate\_key" after downloading. You can just rename this file to
ORG-validator.pem substituting the name of your organization for ORG.

If you will be using [Knife](Knife.html "Knife"), be sure to download
the [User's Private
Key](Managing%20Users%20and%20your%20Private%20Key%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html#ManagingUsersandyourPrivateKeywiththeHostedChefManagementConsole-DownloadingandUsingyourPrivateKey)
as well.

  
  
  
  

  
