Launch Cloud Instances with Knife
=================================

Overview
========

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/7274548/14057498)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/7274548/cloud-300x300.jpg)

##### This page describes how to launch API-driven "Cloud" servers with [Knife](Knife.html "Knife") and automatically run Chef on them.

This page covers the general use of the available cloud plugins.
Reference documentation for the individual plugins is maintained in the
README of the plugin's code repository, linked below where available.
**Currently supported services (version 0.10.0 with plugins):**

**[Amazon
EC2](https://github.com/opscode/knife-ec2/blob/master/README.rdoc)**  
**[Rackspace
Cloud](https://github.com/opscode/knife-rackspace/blob/master/README.rdoc)**  
**[Openstack](https://github.com/opscode/knife-openstack/blob/master/README.md)**  
**[Bluebox](https://github.com/opscode/knife-bluebox/blob/master/README.rdoc)**  
**[Terremark vCloud](https://github.com/opscode/knife-terremark)**  
**[Eucalyptus](https://github.com/opscode/knife-eucalyptus/blob/master/README.rdoc)**  
**[Linode](https://github.com/opscode/knife-linode/blob/master/README.rdoc)**

These are supported via sub-commands in knife that use the Ruby library
[fog](http://rubygems.org/gems/fog). During the "bootstrap" process that
runs Chef, knife will SSH to the systems, and uses the
[net-ssh-multi](http://rubygems.org/gems/net-ssh-multi) library.
Finally, knife uses colorized output via highline.

Install Dependencies
====================

You will need to install the fog, net-ssh-multi and highline gems /
libraries on your local management workstation where you use knife.

    sudo gem install net-ssh net-ssh-multi fog highline --no-rdoc --no-ri --verbose

On Ubuntu you will also need to install some additional apt packages in
order to compile the nokogiri gem (a fog dependency):

    # ruby developer packages
    sudo apt-get install ruby1.8-dev ruby1.8 ri1.8 rdoc1.8 irb1.8
    sudo apt-get install libreadline-ruby1.8 libruby1.8 libopenssl-ruby

    # nokogiri requirements
    sudo apt-get install libxslt-dev libxml2-dev

Once complete, you'd move on to continuing to setup knife with your
"cloud" credentials.

Cloud Credentials
=================

Add the Cloud Credentials to your knife.rb. They are specifically named
for each of the service providers Knife supports as keys under the
`knife` configuration option.

    # EC2:
    knife[:aws_access_key_id]     = "Your AWS Access Key"
    knife[:aws_secret_access_key] = "Your AWS Secret Access Key"

    # Rackspace:
    knife[:rackspace_api_key]      = "Your Rackspace API Key"
    knife[:rackspace_api_username] = "Your Rackspace API username"

    # Terremark
    knife[:terremark_password] = "Your Terremark Password"
    knife[:terremark_username] = "Your Terremark Username"
    knife[:terremark_service]  = "Your Terremark Service name"

    # Eucalyptus
    knife[:euca_access_key_id]     = "Your Eucalyptus Access Key"
    knife[:euca_secret_access_key] = "Your Eucalyptus Secret Access Key"
    knife[:euca_api_endpoint]      = "http://ecc.eucalyptus.com:8773/services/Eucalyptus"

Add the appropriate lines for your preferred Cloud Computing service to
your `knife.rb`.

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/check.gif)

**Chef 0.10: Command examples on this page**  
  
 The command examples on this page now use Chef 0.10's knife plugin
syntax. See the **[Opscode Blog
Post](http://www.opscode.com/blog/2011/04/22/chef-0-10-preview-knife-plugins-and-ui/)**
for an overview.

  

[Overview](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-Overview)

[Install
Dependencies](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-InstallDependencies)

[Cloud Credentials](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-CloudCredentials)

[Cloud Sub-commands](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-CloudSubcommands)

[Creating the server with the knife
plugin](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-Creatingtheserverwiththeknifeplugin)

[Instance Bootstrap](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-InstanceBootstrap)

-   [If The Run Does Not
    Complete](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-IfTheRunDoesNotComplete)
-   [Bootstrap
    Subcommand](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-BootstrapSubcommand)

[SSH Configuration](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-SSHConfiguration)

-   [Identity File](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-IdentityFile)
-   [SSH Key ID](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-SSHKeyID)

[Configuration
Options](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-ConfigurationOptions)

[Connecting to your cloud from its external
FQDN](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-ConnectingtoyourcloudfromitsexternalFQDN)

[Deleting a server](#LaunchCloudInstanceswithKnife-Deletingaserver)

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/check.gif)

**Desire more EC2 specific information?**  
  
 In addition to the use of the knife-ec2 detailed here - there is also
an **[EC2 Bootstrap Fast Start
Guide](EC2%20Bootstrap%20Fast%20Start%20Guide.html "EC2 Bootstrap Fast Start Guide")**
aimed at getting you up and running on EC2 as quick as possible, and an
**[AMI List for
Developers](AMI%20List%20for%20Developers.html "AMI List for Developers")**
which can be useful for cookbook testing.

  

#### Tutorials from the Community

* * * * *

-   ###### Be Agile with EC2 and Knife

Our friends at [Agile Web
Operations](http://www.agileweboperations.com/) provided this **[Blog
Post on Amazon EC2 Instances Using
Knife](http://www.agileweboperations.com/amazon-ec2-instances-with-opscode-chef-using-knife)**.
Check it out!   

-   ###### Chef and AWS Auto-Scaling

Community member [Edward
Sargisson](http://community.opscode.com/users/ejsarge) has a nice blog
post up on **[Keeping an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Instance Up
with Chef and Auto
Scaling](http://www.trailhunger.com/blog/technical/2011/05/28/keeping-an-amazon-elastic-compute-cloud-ec2-instance-up-with-chef-and-auto-scaling/).**
  

-   ###### Chef & Eucalyptus

Opscode joins Brady Murray from [Eucalyptus
Systems](http://www.eucalyptus.com/) to conduct a Webinar on how to
**[Build Automated Private Cloud Infrastructure With Chef &
Eucalyptus](http://blip.tv/opscode/webinar-build-automated-private-cloud-infrastructure-with-chef-eucalyptus-5410876)**.
Check it out!   

-   ###### Chef Managed EC2 Fedora Instances

Community member [Steven
Craig](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/~cixelsyd) has a most excellent
blog post providing an all-in-one to get you from zero to N-1 fully
chef-managed **[Fedora Amazon EC2 instances backed with custom EBS root
devices in less than 60
minutes!](http://www.ikickass.com/shortthoughts/provisionchef-managedfedoraamazonec2virtualmachineinstances)**.
Worthwhile!

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/information.gif)

**Knife Plugins**  
  
 See **[Knife Plugins](Knife%20Plugins.html "Knife Plugins")** for how
to conveniently keep a set of knife plugins that you reuse across
projects in your home directory, share plugins with your team by
including them in your cookbook repo, and share plugins with the whole
Chef community by distributing them as Ruby gems.

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/7274548/21463147.png) Knife
Exec](Knife%20Exec.html "Knife Exec")

[![image](../attachments/7274548/21463146.png) Managing API Clients With
Knife](Managing%20API%20Clients%20With%20Knife.html "Managing API Clients With Knife")

  
  

  

When trying to create a new rackspace instance, I encountered the
following error

    ERROR: Please install net-ssh version 2.0.23 or higher, as lower versions cause issues.

It appears that there is a minor bug in
/usr/lib/ruby/1.8/chef/knife/ssh.rb, at the top, it checks for net-ssh
version \>= 2.0.23 but at the bottom, where it throws this error, it
checks for

    unless (netssh_version::MAJOR == 2) && (netssh_version::TINY >= 23 || netssh_version::MINOR >= 1)

I think it should be

    unless (netssh_version::MAJOR == 2) && (netssh_version::TINY >= 23 || netssh_version::MINOR >= 0)

I am running ubuntu 10.04 and chef via 'deb
[http://apt.opscode.com/](http://apt.opscode.com/) lucid main' in
/etc/apt/sources.list.d/opscode.list

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ajay@where.com at Aug
30, 2010 00:50

I believe the EC setup should really be

knife ec2 server create "rolewebserver" -i ami-2d4aa444 -G default -x
ubuntu -S us-east-01

-G default is the security group - make sure that you are using a group
that allows access to all port you want (80 for HTTP for example)  
 -S us-east-01 is the ssh key. If non is specified it seems you will be
unable to log into the new EC2 instance. You will need to set up this
key for ssh\_agent as explained above.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ewolff at Dec 17, 2010
12:30

I've run into issues on some platforms where the knife command fails to
launch an EC2 instance due to certificate validation issues. This is not
a Chef or Knife problem, and it seems to happen from time to time.
([https://github.com/geemus/excon/issues/issue/13](https://github.com/geemus/excon/issues/issue/13))

The best workaround that I have found so far is to add the following to
the bottom of .chef/knife.rb

require 'excon'   
 Excon.ssl\_verify\_peer = false

It's certainly not the ideal solution, but I spent several hours
figuring that out, and it's better than not being able to bootstrap
servers.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by cpope at Feb 01, 2011
21:17

Apologies in advance if I'm posting this in the wrong place...

**Question: Is ubuntu still the only OS supported by this process?**

I tried launching an EC2 instance that was Fedora based, and things died
out I think in or around trying to build the native Gem extensions...

    ...
    /usr/bin/prettify_json.rb
    Building native extensions.  This could take a while..

    ERROR:  Error installing chef:
        ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.

    /usr/bin/ruby extconf.rb
    can't find header files for ruby.


    Gem files will remain installed in /usr/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/json-1.4.6 for inspection.
    Results logged to /usr/lib/ruby/gems/1.8/gems/json-1.4.6/ext/json/ext/generator/gem_make.out
    bash: line 65: /usr/bin/chef-client: No such file or directory

    ...

I noticed the comment above saying that "The current implementation is
opinionated and is focused on Ubuntu servers, but we are working to
support other platforms and methods." but when I went to the ticket
([http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-1376](http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-1376))
it said it was a dup of
([http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-1393](http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-1393))
which is marked as closed...

So... any thoughts on what I'm doing wrong.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by opscode-admin@korrio.com
at Feb 16, 2011 19:31

I'd like to be able to provision a cloud instance and have the
chef-client daemonize as is possible with the knife bootstrap method.
What's the best approach to this?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by matt@williams-tech.net
at Nov 15, 2011 01:40

Matt,

Use Opscode's "chef-client" cookbook. It provides a service recipe that
will set up chef-client to run as a daemon.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by jtimberman at Nov 15,
2011 17:06

This worked well - thanks.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by matt@williams-tech.net
at Nov 15, 2011 22:24

Hi,

Can I start a windows instance (Windows Server 2008) with 'knife ec2
server create' ?

Thank you,  
 Razvan

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by razvant7 at May 14, 2012
07:07

Or can I run knife openstack server create for Windows Server 2008?

It does create an instance but not able to run chef commands on the
node/client. Actually it tries to connect/login to the launched instance
but with no success.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ranjank at Jul 06, 2012
11:32
