Introduction to Search and Data Bags
====================================

  

  

### The article introduces the basics of search and data bags.

##### These are two of Chef's most powerful features and allow you to dynamically change the configuration of your infrastructure based on data.

  

Search
======

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/19923594/24182786)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/19923594/SEARCH-1-1.png)

Search is a feature of the Chef Server that allows you to use a
full-text search engine (based on Apache Solr) to query information
about your infrastructure and applications. Information contained in
Node attributes, data bags (see below), environments, roles, and API
clients are all searchable.

Search can be used both within recipes and from the Chef Workstations
using knife. For example, in a recipe, I might want a list of all my
application servers so that I can add them to my load-balancers
configuration. To do this, I might search for all of the nodes that are
using the role "appserver":

    app_servers = search(:node, 'role:appserver')

**Note that the results of this search will likely not be static.**
Rather, each time chef-client runs, the results will reflect the
appservers within your infrastructure at that time. *This gives you the
power to scale infrastruture and ensure that new components will be
properly integrated with existing components such as a load-balancer.*

Alternatively, you might want to quickly list the nodes serving as your
application servers from your workstation:

    knife search node 'role:appserver'

For more information on search see [Search](Search.html "Search").

Data Bag
========

![image](../attachments/19923594/24182788.png)

Data Bags store nested key–value data (like attributes) on the chef
server. Data Bag data are searchable, and can also be loaded directly by
name in a recipe. **Data Bags are global for your chef-server
installation–you can think of them as attributes for your whole
infrastructure.**

For example, a given node many need many user accounts. Rather than
writing a new user resource description for each of those users, we
could store information about each user in a data bag and simplify our
recipe:

    search(:users, '*:*') do |u|
      user u["username"] do
        home u["home"]
        shell u["shell"]
        comment u["comment"]
      end
    end

Now, whenever we want to add a user to our nodes, we can do so by
editing the data bag rather than the recipe. *Not only does this
simplify our recipes, but it ensures that important data about our
infrastructure is now available over search.* Having this data be
searchable means that we can quickly answer questions we might have
about our infrastructure, using knife. For instance, say we wanted to
know the default shell the user "hank" is using, we could do the
following using knife:

    knife search users 'username:hank' -a shell

For data bags containing sensitive data, Chef provides **Encrypted Data
Bags** which allows you to securely store information on the Chef Server
in an encrypted form. For more information about data bags and encrypted
data bags see [Data Bags](Data%20Bags.html "Data Bags") and [Encrypted
Data Bags](Encrypted%20Data%20Bags.html "Encrypted Data Bags").

Summary
=======

-   Search allows you to query information about your infrastructure
    from within a recipe or via knife.
-   Data bags allow you to store data in a searchable fashion. This data
    is then searchable and can be used within recipes.

Allons-y!
=========

Now that you've read about the basic concepts of Chef, you may want to
check out [Guide to Creating A Cookbook and Writing A
Recipe](Guide%20to%20Creating%20A%20Cookbook%20and%20Writing%20A%20Recipe.html "Guide to Creating A Cookbook and Writing A Recipe")
for a guided tour of writing your first cookbook or [Fast Start
Guide](Fast%20Start%20Guide.html "Fast Start Guide") to quickly set up
your Chef Workstation and a Node using Hosted Chef as your Chef Server.

Advanced Reading
================

-   [Search](Search.html "Search")
-   [Data Bags](Data%20Bags.html "Data Bags")
-   [Encrypted Data
    Bags](Encrypted%20Data%20Bags.html "Encrypted Data Bags")

  
  
  
  

  
