git resource updates
====================

  

![image](../attachments/13762672/14057495.png)

#### *This is a grouping of three related proposals*  
  
 (1) Creating a common codepath for the git resource   
 (2) Adding developer\_mode   
 (3) Adding a local\_changes parameter.

Git Resource Change 1: Robustification
--------------------------------------

The idea here is to put checkout and update onto a common codepath,
ensuring that anything that checkout sets up, sync updates (and vice
versa). This gives us greater confidence that the code works in both
cases, and reduces the test burden. It also makes it easier to add
features like developer\_mode which would have to be put into both
codepaths.

Presently, the git resource works like this:

    if <destination>/.git exists
      if there is something to sync
        <set remote tracking branch> unless remote = origin
        git fetch <remote>
        git fetch <remote> --tags
        git reset --hard <target revision>
        git submodule init
        git submodule update
      end
      foreach additional_remote
        git remote add <remote> <url>
      
    else
      git clone [-o remote] [--depth depth] repository destination
      git checkout -b deploy <target revision>
      git submodule init
      git submodule update
      foreach additional_remote
        git remote add <remote> <url>
    end

This model puts setup in the else branch, and maintenance in the if
branch. What may not be obvious is that some things that get set in the
else branch, don’t get updated in the if branch. For example, the branch
doesn’t get updated (if it gets out of sync, it won’t get fixed).

##### Proposal: One Thing At A Time

The way to think about the resource is, it declares the state it wants
to move to. It should be in branch X, it should be at revision Y, it
should come from repository Z ...

The proposed flow takes it one piece at a time, first cloning from the
repository, then getting on the right branch, then getting on the right
revision, then getting the right remotes ...

    # Ensure we have a working git clone
    if <destination>/.git does not exist
      git clone [-o remote] [--depth depth] repository destination
    end

    # Create branch
    if "deploy" branch does not exist
      git branch deploy <target revision>
    end

    # Check out branch
    if current_branch != “deploy”
      git checkout deploy
    end

    # Update branch to proper revision
    if branch is out of sync with target
      git fetch <remote>
      git fetch <remote> --tags
      git reset --hard <target revision>
    end

    # Set remotes
    <set primary remote tracking branch name and url> unless remote = origin
    foreach additional_remote
      <set remote tracking branch name and url>

This model has the general pattern: if <thing is not what it should be\>
<make it so\>. By breaking it up into fine-grained increments, any
individual thing that goes wrong gets fixed, even if other things are in
their proper state. (i.e. if the branch changes but nothing else, the
branch gets smacked back into shape without changing anything else.)

This model also allows us to have exactly one codepath, so that checkout
and sync are both (largely) tested simultaneously.

Git Resource Change 2: `developer_mode`
---------------------------------------

When setting up git repositories for use by a developer, the current
detached “deploy” branch is less than ideal. This proposal adds
“developer\_mode” to the git resource, which does not create “deploy”
branch and instead leaves the user in whatever branch they wanted to
use. This would change the above process like so:

    # Create branch
    if <target branch or "deploy"> does not exist
      git branch <target branch or "deploy"> <target revision>
    end

    # Set upstream
    if developer_mode
      git branch --set-upstream <target branch> <remote>/<target branch>
    end

    # Checkout
    git checkout <target branch or "deploy">

This is still suboptimal due to the “git reset --hard”, but it gets us a
little closer to where we want to be. We address that issue in the third
change.

Git Resource Change 3: `update_method`
--------------------------------------

One issue with the git resource at present is that the policy regarding
files that get modified in-place is inflexible, and does not work well
for developer mode because the default policy is to overwrite changes.
This proposal adds an `update_method` attribute to the git resource,
which allows you to specify what should happen with any modified files
on your drive. The possible values are:

Value

Git command

Local Modifications

New Untracked Files

Local Commits

In Case Of Conflict

Notes

`:reset_merge`

`git reset --merge`

Keeps changes

Keeps new files

Loses commits

Fails update

`:reset_hard`

`git reset --hard`

Overwrites changes

Keeps new files

Loses commits

Overwrites local changes

Default

`:reset_clean`

`git reset --hard`  
`git clean -d`

Overwrites changes

Deletes new files

Loses commits

Overwrites local changes

`:rebase`

`git rebase`

Keeps changes

Keeps new files

Keeps (rebases) commits

Fails update

Default for `developer_mode`. Does not work with revision or tag.

Unresolved
----------

When do local\_changes get updated?  
 If you have chosen git reset --hard (the default), there is another
policy decision that needs to be made. If a file gets modified in-place,
when should it get overwritten? Currently we wait until a revision
happens on the server. One can imagine people who want their state to
converge to the server’s state sooner than that. Perhaps a value like
local\_changes\_update=:immediate or :on\_version\_change   
  
  

  
