After hooks
===========

  
 There are certain situations where it would be advantageous to
manipulate the Chef::ResourceCollection after it has been compiled -
essentially, we need after hooks between the compilation and execution
stages of Chef.

This can be done today by simply making the recipes that include your
'after' hooks run at the end of the compilation - but it becomes
difficult to manage a number of such hooks. An example of what is
possible today:

**An after hook in Chef 0.5.4**

    collection.each do |r|
      if r.provider == Chef::Provider::Package::Rubygems
        r.notify :run, resources(:execute => "random command")
      end
    end

This would make sure that a random command gets notified every time a
Gem package is installed. Another, more interesting case is with a
package provider such as Yum, that is very costly to run. It would be
great to let people distribute code that hooks in to the recipe process,
and makes all package installations occur once. What follows is some
untested code that would accomplish this:

**Package Bundling for Yum**

    package_list = Array.new # The packages we are going to install at once
    injection_point = 0      # Where in the resource collection the first package install appears 
    collection.each_index do |i| # Walk the index
      r = collection[i] # Set the current resource to r
      # if it is a yum package
      if Chef::Platform.find_provider_for_node(node, r) == Chef::Provider::Package::Yum
        # And we are installing without a version
        if r.action == :install && !r.version 
          # Store the location, set the action to nothing, and store the name of the package
          injection_point = i unless injection_point == 0
          r.action(:nothing) 
          package_list << r.package_name
        end
      end
    end

    # Create a resource to install all the yum pkgs at once
    all_packages = execute "yum bundle" do
      command "yum install #{package_list.join(' ')}"
    end
    # Insert the new resource
    collection.insert(i, all_packages)

### Long term

It would be great to basically allow any recipe to embedd functionality
like this, extending and modifying Chef. We propose the creation of an
'after' hook, that when it appears in any recipe will get executed at
the end of the execution cycle. It will be passed the node and the
resource collection. So the above would be wrapped:

**After hook version of Package Bundling for Yum**

    after "yum bundle" do |node, collection|
      package_list = Array.new # The packages we are going to install at once
      injection_point = 0      # Where in the resource collection the first package install appears 
      collection.each_index do |i| # Walk the index
        r = collection[i] # Set the current resource to r
        # if it is a yum package
        if Chef::Platform.find_provider_for_node(node, r) == Chef::Provider::Package::Yum
          # And we are installing without a version
          if r.action == :install && !r.version 
            # Store the location, set the action to nothing, and store the name of the package
            injection_point = i unless injection_point == 0
            r.action(:nothing) 
            package_list << r.package_name
          end
        end
      end

      # Create a resource to install all the yum pkgs at once
      all_packages = execute "yum bundle" do
        command "yum install #{package_list.join(' ')}"
      end
      # Insert the new resource
      collection.insert(i, all_packages)
    end

Note that, in this specific case, there are interesting edge cases. If
you specify the version of a package, and we first bundle up a package
that depends on it, with yum you will likely not get the behavior you
want (you'll get the current version of the dependency, most likely.)
Them's the breaks when you manipulate stuff this way.
![image](images/icons/emoticons/smile.gif)  
  
