Chef Essentials
===============

  

* * * * *

![image](../attachments/19923746/20840559.jpg)  
![image](../attachments/19923746/20086975.jpg)

### Understanding and use of these essential components will provide you the capability to take advantage of the power of Chef.

  

* * * * *

  
  
  

#### [Attributes](Attributes.html "Attributes")

Node data such as the IP address, hostname, loaded kernel modules,
version of programming languages available on the system and more.

* * * * *

#### [Cookbooks](Cookbooks.html "Cookbooks")

The fundamental units of distribution in Chef. They encapsulate all the
resources you need to automate your infrastructure and are easily
sharable with other Chef users.

* * * * *

#### [Definitions](Definitions.html "Definitions")

Allow the creation of new Resources by stringing together existing
resources.

* * * * *

#### [Libraries](Libraries.html "Libraries")

Allow inclusion of arbitrary Ruby code, either to extend Chef's language
or to implement your own classes directly. They are the secret sauce
that will allow you to plug in to your existing infrastructure and
utilize it to inform how your systems are configured.

* * * * *

#### [Metadata](Metadata.html "Metadata")

A small amount of meta-data is required in cookbooks. This information
is used to provide hints to the Chef Server as to what cookbooks should
be deployed to a given node, and in the future it will be integral to an
automated system for discovering and installing cookbooks.

* * * * *

#### [Recipes](Recipes.html "Recipes")

The fundamental configuration in Chef. Recipes encapsulate collections
of [Resources](Resources.html "Resources") which are executed in the
order defined to configure the [Nodes](Nodes.html "Nodes").

* * * * *

#### [Templates](Templates.html "Templates")

Files written in a markup language that allows one to dynamically
generate the file's final content based on variables or more complex
logic. Templates are commonly used to manage configuration files with
Chef.

* * * * *

#### [Chef Repository](Chef%20Repository.html "Chef Repository")

The place where cookbooks, roles, config files and other artifacts for
managing systems with Chef will live.

* * * * *

#### [Data Bags](Data%20Bags.html "Data Bags")

Provide an arbitrary stores of globally available JSON data.

* * * * *

#### [Environments](Environments.html "Environments")

Provide a mechanism for managing different environments such as
production, staging, development, and testing, etc with one Chef setup
(or one organization on Hosted Chef).

* * * * *

#### [Exception and Report Handlers](Exception%20and%20Report%20Handlers.html "Exception and Report Handlers")

A feature of Chef that allow you to run code in response to a Chef run
succeeding or failing.

* * * * *

#### [Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP)](Lightweight%20Resources%20and%20Providers%20(LWRP).html "Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP)")

Resource and providers whose implementation is quick and easy, requiring
less Ruby knowledge than their heavier counterparts.

* * * * *

#### [Nodes](Nodes.html "Nodes")

Hosts that runs the Chef client. The primary features of a node, from
Chef's point of view, are its [Attributes](Attributes.html "Attributes")
and its run list. Nodes are the thing that
[Recipes](Recipes.html "Recipes") and [Roles](Roles.html "Roles") are
applied to.

* * * * *

#### [Providers](Providers.html "Providers")

Take a resource, compare that resource to the current state of the part
of the system it is managing, and then takes the Action specified in the
resource. They are the way that Chef supports multiple platforms with a
single Resource.

* * * * *

#### [Resources](Resources.html "Resources")

A cross platform abstraction of the thing you're configuring on the
host. For example, packages may be installed via apt, yum, or the BSD
ports and packages systems, but the package resource abstracts these
differences away so you can specify that a package should be installed
in a cross-platform way. Chef's resources are mostly just containers for
data, with some basic validation functionality.

* * * * *

#### [Roles](Roles.html "Roles")

Provide a means of grouping similar features of similar nodes, providing
a mechanism for easily composing sets of functionality. At web scale,
you almost never have just one of something, so you use roles to express
the parts of the configuration that are shared by a group of Nodes.

* * * * *

#### [Search](Search.html "Search")

A feature of the Chef Server that allows you to use a full-text search
engine (based on Apache Solr) to query information about your
infrastructure and applications. Searches are built by the Chef Server,
and allow you to query arbitrary data about your infrastructure.

* * * * *

  
  
  
  

  
