Data Bags
=========

![image](../attachments/5406768/20840627.png)

What are Data Bags?
===================

##### Data bags provide an arbitrary stores of globally available JSON data.

Data Bags are not directly associated with Node or Role attributes. When
using Data Bags with a chef server, they are stored on the server and
indexed for searching. When using Data Bags with chef-solo, data bags
are stored in a directory hierarchy on the machine running chef-solo.

[Recipes](#DataBags-UsingDataBagsinRecipes) can load data bags directly
or [search](#DataBags-LoadingDataBagsthroughtheSearchInterface) a data
bag for specific values similar to attributes in node indexes.

Store Data Bags In Source Control
=================================

If you clone the [Chef
Repository](Chef%20Repository.html "Chef Repository") from Opscode,
there is a directory called `data_bags`. You can create a directory for
each bag, and put the JSON files for each item in the bag's directory.
This will provide for more easily managing data bags in source control
systems and in understanding and use. Access to your data bag structure
can then be done through the knife command to load from file.

### Data Bag From File

A individual data bag can refer to either a sub-directory of the
chef-repo/data\_bags directory or a .json file in that directory or one
of the sub-directories. From the earlier example of admins:

    mkdir data_bags/admins

Either create the new data bag item as a JSON file in the admins
directory, or if the item already exists on the Chef Server, write to a
file.

    vi data_bags/admins/charlie.json

Or:

    knife data bag show admins charlie -Fj > data_bags/admins/charlie.json

Here is an example of what a complete data bag directory structure could
look like:

    data_bags
                |_admins
                           |_charlie.json
                           |_bob.json
                           |_tom.json
                |_db_users
                           |_charlie.json
                           |_bob.json
                           |_sarah.json
                |_db_config
                           |_small.json
                           |_medium.json
                           |_large.json
                |_standard_packages.json
                |_global_shell_settings.json

***The directory structure is used by knife as a convenience so you
don't have to type the full path when using the `data bag from file`
sub-command.***

The data bag itself provides a container of related items. For example,
admins and db\_users in your output would be separate bags. The
"standard\_packages" and "global\_shell\_settings" are things that might
be under a "common" bag or whatever makes sense to you for grouping.

Each item in the bag gets its own JSON file. **The only structural
requirement of items is that they have an id.**

    {
         "id": "ITEM_NAME"
       }

Then when using the knife command to load the data bag item from the
JSON file, you don't have to specify the path, just the name of the bag
and the filename of the item. Knife's `data bag from file` automatically
knows how to find the directory and the file under `data_bags`.

The command:

    knife data bag from file BAG_NAME ITEM_NAME.json

Loads the file:

    data_bags/BAG_NAME/ITEM_NAME.json

(Note: the bag "BAG\_NAME" must exist already.)

So, for the example above, if you are in the directory

    data_bags/admins

and make changes to the file charlie.json, then you would want to upload
that change to the Chef server with the command:

    knife data bag from file admins charlie.json

If you are not in the root directory for chef, you can also specify the
path with this command:

    knife data bag from file BAG_NAME /path/to/file/ITEM_NAME.json

  

[What are Data Bags?](#DataBags-WhatareDataBags%3F)

[Store Data Bags In Source
Control](#DataBags-StoreDataBagsInSourceControl)

-   [Data Bag From File](#DataBags-DataBagFromFile)

[Managing Data Bags With Knife](#DataBags-ManagingDataBagsWithKnife)

[Using Data Bags in Recipes](#DataBags-UsingDataBagsinRecipes)

[Loading a Data Bag Directly](#DataBags-LoadingaDataBagDirectly)

-   [A More Complete Example](#DataBags-AMoreCompleteExample)

[Loading Data Bags through the Search
Interface](#DataBags-LoadingDataBagsthroughtheSearchInterface)

[Creating and Editing Data Bags within a
Recipe](#DataBags-CreatingandEditingDataBagswithinaRecipe)

[Data Bags and Environments](#DataBags-DataBagsandEnvironments)

[Using Data Bags with Chef Solo](#DataBags-UsingDataBagswithChefSolo)

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/check.gif)

**Deploying from your private repo using Data Bags?**  
  
 Don't overlook the `deploy_key` option. It's there for you to use to
add the deployment private key to the data bag.

    {
         "id": "my_app",
         ... (truncated) ...
         "deploy_key": "SSH private key"
      }

The key would be the one from your private git repository, and needs to
be a string with the newlines converted to "\\n"'s

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/information.gif)

**Command Output Change in 0.10**  
  
 Prior to version 0.10, `knife data bag` output was a JSON
representation of the relavent information. JSON output can still be
received in 0.10 and above by passing the `-Fj` command line option to
knife.

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/5406768/20840624.png)
Cookbooks](Cookbooks.html "Cookbooks")

[![image](../attachments/5406768/20840625.png)
Environments](Environments.html "Environments")

  
  

  

Right (0.8.4) now only clients with Admin access can write to databags

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at Mar
04, 2010 03:22

This is different to the platform behavior
![image](images/icons/emoticons/sad.gif)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by aj at Mar 08, 2010 00:11

Very cool idea. I think this may help solve some of the issues I've had
trying to using a finite set of node attributes to setup N resources on
a node. (ex. multiple vhosts)

Question: given a cookbook that uses databags â€“ how do I know what to
put into my bag? Right now it seems that performing a by-hand code
inspection of the cookbook might be the only way?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by cary at Mar 31, 2010
22:47

I added bit of code to chef-repo Rakefile to dump and load data bags to
chef-repo, with eye toward editing databags remotely. Unfortunately
knife does not have data bag dump or data bag load commands, to had to
improvise.

If someone else find this useful, here is the link:
[http://gist.github.com/368740](http://gist.github.com/368740)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by alexg at Apr 16, 2010
18:06

Should changing a data bag used in a recipe (via search) cause the
recipe to run on the next client execution?

For example, nagios::server uses a data bag "users". Will changing the
contents of users cause the nagios::server recipe to regenerate files?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by mtnygard at Jul 16, 2010
16:56

Data Bags don't have any direct impact on the configuration on the
machine, they're just, er... bags of data. So the important part for
determining if changing a databag (item) will change the configuration
on a host is whether that will change the data being fed to a resource
in a recipe. For example, if your nagios recipe has a template that
loops over all of the users to set up the contact groups, then adding or
removing a user will cause Chef to update the template on the next run.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dan@kallistec.com at Sep
30, 2010 15:48

Any best practices for writing and read-modify-write databags from a
recipe?

There is the example of creating a new databag from the ebs\_volume
example:

    item = {
      "id" => "ebs_#{db_role}_#{node[:app_environment]}",
      "volume_id" => ebs_vol_id
    }
    databag_item = Chef::DataBagItem.new
    databag_item.data_bag("aws")
    databag_item.raw_data = item
    databag_item.save

But how would I do an update to that?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at May
11, 2011 08:56

I see that data bags are now supported in Chef Solo. What about
encrypted data bags? Are these supported, and if so, are there any
examples of how they would be used?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by akerr@fluid.com at Oct
24, 2011 14:06

It seems data bag should create first use 'knife data bag create
BAG\_NAME'

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by williamherry at Jun 11,
2012 09:18
