Unix Environment Variables and Chef Recipes
===========================================

  

![image](../attachments/17465395/20840600.jpg)

### In Unix, a process' environment is a set of key-value pairs made available to the process.

##### Often, programs expect their environment to contain information required for the program to run. The details of how these key-value pairs are accessed depends on the API of the language being used.

This article explains how environments of child processes interact with
their parent process and how you can use Chef to ensure that services
and applications are started with the proper environment.

Child Processes and Inheritance
===============================

Child processes inherit a copy of their parent's environment. In Bash
(and other shells) the environment is accessible via shell variables.
Shell variables can be added to the environment that is inherited by
children processes using the `export` keyword.

Consider the following example:

    % WOO="woo" #Set a shell variable
    % echo $WOO
    woo
    % bash #Start a new process, a child of our first shell
    % echo $WOO # Shell variable is empty because we didn't export it

    % exit # Return to original shell
    exit
    % export WOO # Export variable 
    % bash
    % echo $WOO #Shell variable now available in children.
    woo
    % exit

As mentioned, the child process gets a *copy* of its parent's
environment. This means that any changes made to that environment do not
affect the parent process. For example:

    % WOO="woo" #Set a shell variable
    % echo $WOO
    woo
    % bash #Start a new process, a child of our first shell
    % export WOO="hello" # Change and export the shell variable
    % exit # Return to original shell
    exit
    % echo $WOO #The parent's value remains unchanged.
    woo
    % exit

**The principles mentioned above (a child process receives a copy of its
parent's environment and cannot affect their parent's environment) apply
in Ruby and Chef just as they do in Bash.**

In Ruby (and thus Chef), the current environment can be altered via the
`ENV` variable. Any changes made to the environment will also be
available to child process started by Chef. For example, consider the
following recipe:

    ENV['FOO'] = "bar"
    bash "env_test0" do
        code<<-EOF
     echo $FOO
    EOF
    end

When run, the bash resource will correctly echo "bar" to its standard
output.

However, just as in Bash, changes made in child processes have no affect
on the parent, and thus no affect on subsequent child processes:

    bash "env_test1" do
        code<<-EOF
        export BAZ="bar"
    EOF
    end

    bash "env_test2" do
        code<<-EOF
     echo $BAZ
    EOF
    end

When run, the second bash resource will not cause anything to be echoed
to standard out as BAZ is not part of its environment.

Managing Environments when Using Chef
=====================================

Services and other processes often look to environment variables for
important information needed at run time. There are a number of ways to
ensure that processes have access to the environment variables they need
to run properly.

### Using the Service's Init Script

*Ideally, a service's init script would contain everything needed to
properly start that service, including the necessary environment.*
Ensuring that the init script itself contains the necessary environment
changes ensures that the service will start properly whenever it is
being started using its init script, whether that be from Chef's
`service` resource or directly from the shell. In classic System V init
scripts, the environment can be altered just as it can be altered in any
other shell script, by using a shell variable marked with the `export`
keyword:

    export IMPORTANT_VAR="value"

##### Upstart Services

For services started using
[Upstart](http://upstart.ubuntu.com/getting-started.html) (the System
V-compatible init system used by recent versions of Ubuntu and other
distributions), their environment can be altered using `env`:

    env IMPORTANT_VAR="value"

See
[init(5)](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/maverick/man5/init.5.html)
(provided with the upstart package) for more information.

##### Systemd Services

For services started using
[systemd](http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd) (the System
V-compatible init system by the recent versions of Fedora and other
distributions), their environment can be altered using the `Environment`
or `EnvironmentFile` options:

    Environment="IMPORTANT_VAR='value'"

See
[systemd.exec(5)](http://0pointer.de/public/systemd-man/systemd.exec.html)
for more details.

*If the init script provided by the package does not include the
necessary environment variables, you can manage your altered init script
using Chef's [template
resource](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources#Resources-Template).*

### Using ENV

Another method is to use Ruby's predefined ENV variable to set the
environment variable. *This ensures that any child processes (including
the service that a resource may be starting) have this value in their
environment.* While not technically a Hash, ENV can be manipulated as if
it were a Hash. For example:

    ENV['IMPORTANT_VAR'] = "value"

    # Some service that requires IMPORTANT VAR
    service "example_service" do
      action :start
    end

*Note, however, that changes made to ENV only effect the environment of
the chef-client process and its children processes.* Altering the
environment in this way will often ensure that Chef can start the
service properly, but will not ensure that the service will start
properly when started using other methods.

### Using Resource Attributes

If you are starting a processes by using an `execute` or `script`
resource, you can use the `environment` attribute to alter the
environment that will be passed to the process.

    bash "env_test" do
        code<<-EOF
     echo $FOO
    EOF
        environment { 'FOO' => "bar" }
    end

*Note that the only environment being altered is the environment being
passed to the child process being started by the `bash` resource.* This
will not affect the environment of chef-client or subsequently started
child processes.

Other Issues
============

##### *My init script works fine when I'm logged in but not over ssh or when launched from chef-client running as daemon!*

Shells commonly alter their environment at startup by loading various
initialization scripts. The files used for initialization vary based on
whether the shell is started as an interactive or non-interactive shell
and whether it is is started as a login or non-login shell. When you log
in, you are likely starting an interactive, login shell. When you run a
command via ssh, it is possible that you are starting a non-interactive
shell. This can mean that the process in question is receiving different
environments. Ensure that your service or process is being started in a
way that ensures its environment has the necessary key-value pairs.

##### *I want to change the environment for every process!*

To change the environment for new processes, you will need to alter the
initialization scripts for your system's shell. You can manage these
scripts using a Chef template resource; however, there are a few caveats
you should be aware of:

-   The environments of existing processes will be unaffected.
-   Shells look to different startup files when started with different
    options. See your shell's documentation for the definitive list of
    files that need to be altered and whether it is possible to alter
    the environment for every possible invocation of the shell.
-   When you first change a shell's initialization file, it will have no
    affect on your current shell or process since its environment has
    already been initialized.
-   From a shell, you can use the `source` command to reload the given
    initialization file; however, since child processes do not affect
    their parent's environment, using a `script` or `execute` resource
    to run `source` from inside a Chef recipe will have no effect on
    chef-client's environment.

Additional Reading
==================

On most well configured unix-like systems, the following manual pages
should be helpful:

-   environ(7)
-   env(1)
-   The INVOCATION, COMMAND EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT, and ENVIRONMENT
    sections of bash(1) or the equivalent sections in the manual page
    for your preferred shell.

  
  
  
  

  
