Deploy Resource
===============

  
![image](../attachments/2883919/13238300.jpg)

##### There are two resources for deployment, the [Deploy Resource](#DeployResource-DeployResource) - with extensive attributes available to specify use, and the [SCM Resources](#DeployResource-SCMResources) - which can be used within the Deploy Resource, or independently.

There are many approaches and strategies that can be undertaken to use
these resources for managing and automating deployment within your
infrastructure. **The [discussion](#DeployResource-Discussion) below
goes over some of those approaches and provides some examples of use.**

SCM Resources
=============

Source Control Management (SCM) Resources, which may be used within the
Deploy resource, or independently.

Actions
-------

"sync" is the default action.

Action

Description

Default

**sync**

Update the source to the specified revision, or get a new clone/checkout

**checkout**

Clone or checkout the source. Does nothing if a checkout is available

**export**

Export the source, excluding or removing any version control artifacts

**force\_export**

(Subversion only) Force an export of the source overwriting the existing
copy if it exists, excluding or removing any version control artifacts

Attributes
----------

Attribute

Description

Default Value

**destination**

Name attribute Path to clone/checkout/export the source to.

**repository**

URI of the repository

**revision**

revision to checkout. can be symbolic, like "HEAD" or an SCM specific
revision id

HEAD

**reference**

(Git only) alias for revision

**user**

System user to own the checked out code

nil (user chef runs as)

**group**

System group to own the checked out code

nil(user chef runs as)

**svn\_username**

(Subversion only) Username for Subversion operations

**svn\_password**

(Subversion only) Password for Subversion operations

**svn\_arguments**

(Subversion only) Extra arguments passed to the subversion command

**svn\_info\_args**

(Subversion only) **svn\_arguments** are not used when chef calls "svn
info". If you need arguments to be passed to "svn info", put them in
**svn\_info\_args**

**depth**

(Git only) Number of past revisions to include in Git shallow clone

nil (full clone)

**enable\_submodules**

(Git only) performs a *submodule init* and *submodule update*

false

**remote**

(Git only) remote repository to use for syncing an existing clone

origin

**additional\_remotes**

(Git only) Array of additional remotes to add to the repositories
configuration

**ssh\_wrapper**

(Git only) path to a wrapper script for running SSH with git. GIT\_SSH
environment variable is set to this.

  

[SCM Resources](#DeployResource-SCMResources)

-   [Actions](#DeployResource-Actions)
-   [Attributes](#DeployResource-Attributes)
-   [Providers](#DeployResource-Providers)
-   [SCM Examples](#DeployResource-SCMExamples)

[Deploy Resource](#DeployResource-DeployResource)

[Actions](#DeployResource-Actions)

[Attributes](#DeployResource-Attributes)

[Providers](#DeployResource-Providers)

[Discussion](#DeployResource-Discussion)

[The Deploy Strategies](#DeployResource-TheDeployStrategies)

-   [Timestamped Deploy](#DeployResource-TimestampedDeploy)
-   [Deploy Revision](#DeployResource-DeployRevision)

[Interacting with Your Infrastructure During
Deployment](#DeployResource-InteractingwithYourInfrastructureDuringDeployment)

[Custom Application Layouts](#DeployResource-CustomApplicationLayouts)

[How to Nuke and Start Over](#DeployResource-HowtoNukeandStartOver)

[Deploy Examples](#DeployResource-DeployExamples)

[Private Deploy Example](#DeployResource-PrivateDeployExample)

-   [Remove the passphrase from your private
    key](#DeployResource-Removethepassphrasefromyourprivatekey)
-   [Writing the recipe and using the SSH
    wrapper](#DeployResource-WritingtherecipeandusingtheSSHwrapper)
-   [Adding the private key to the
    node](#DeployResource-Addingtheprivatekeytothenode)

[Open Issues](#DeployResource-OpenIssues)

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/check.gif)

**Doing Deployment from Your Git Repo?**  
  
 Don't hit a dead end when you try to pull the code from your private
git repo! If you do, *one of the following should help:*

**1. Have a passphrase-less key.**  
 You can strip your current key of the passphrase with:

    ssh-keygen -p -P 'YOURPASSPHRASE' -N '' -f id_deploy

Run that from /srv/app\_name, type your passphrase where
'YOURPASSPHRASE' appears, and the ssh-key will no longer require a
passphrase.

or

**2. Add the deployment private key to a [Data
Bag](Data%20Bags.html "Data Bags").**

    {
         "id": "my_app",
         ... truncated ...
         "deploy_key": "SSH private key for private git repository"
       }

The key needs to be a string with the newlines converted to "\\n"'s   

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/2883919/20840708.png)
Resources](Resources.html "Resources")

[![image](../attachments/2883919/20840707.png) YUM Package
Resource](Yum%20Package%20Resource.html "Yum Package Resource")

  
  

  

would be great if enable\_submodules works recursively from the start
... (like
[http://speakmy.name/2008/10/capistrano-and-nested-submodules-in-git/](http://speakmy.name/2008/10/capistrano-and-nested-submodules-in-git/))

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ehaselwanter at Oct 02,
2009 07:25

I believe our code still has this same enable\_submodules problem;
thanks Edmund I'll look into it!

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by aj at Oct 02, 2009 23:58

It's not clear how to use the alternate providers. I stumbled around
before I figured out I had to say:  

    deploy_revision "/some/where" do
    ..
    end

As a side note: Doing this made me realize why I never liked capistrano:
Why should my app know where it's source code lives? I shouldn't need to
change my app if I move my source code. Also, having the app start/stop
itself doesn't make sense because there are so many servers in ruby
(mongrel, thin, passenger, unicorn, etc.) Why should I update my app
when I change server technology?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dmag at Dec 21, 2009
19:36

I'm getting the release directory sym-linked below the current/
directory, i.e. something like

/srv/myapp/current/20100723075228 -\> /srv/myapp/releases/20100723075228

instead of

/srv/myapp/current -\> /srv/myapp/releases/20100723075228

I think here is why
[http://github.com/opscode/chef/commit/b86c5b063f6544b3767abec03ce0509aaa8c372b\#L2R150](http://github.com/opscode/chef/commit/b86c5b063f6544b3767abec03ce0509aaa8c372b#L2R150)
but can somebody check that?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dolzenko@gmail.com at
Jul 23, 2010 08:12

There also seems to be a bug with caching & failed deploys. Chef will
write to $CACHE/revision-deploys at the start of a deploy. If the deploy
fails, the next chef-client run will not even try to deploy b/c it sees
the latest deploy already in this cache. Perhaps chef should wait to
write to the cache until after the deploy block exits successfully?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dhruvbansal at Aug 07,
2010 20:11

How do you change the deployment strategy? Above it says: "The
'timestamped' deploy strategy is the default" but I can't figure out how
to change the default!

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ithinkihaveacat at Aug
27, 2010 11:51

I figured it out--instead of:

deploy "xxx" do  
 ...  
 end

you need to do

deploy\_revision "xxx" do  
 ...  
 end

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ithinkihaveacat at Aug
27, 2010 12:29

"For a rails application, you will typically have config, log, pids, and
system directories within the shared directory"

I think 'config' should be removed from this sentence. When I deployed a
Rails app, the config dir didn't get symlinked. It's not capistrano-y to
do so, anyway.

EDIT: the individual files seem to get symlinked. Oops!

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by camelpunch at Sep 10,
2010 09:38

Yep. Capistrano was written before config management was popular in the
rails community and one of the design goals was to allow you to set your
production db password without having to check it in to source control,
which it accomplishes by reusing the same database.yml and symlinking it
in to place. Chef matches this behavior, though it's easy enough to grab
your db password from a data bag and render your database.yml from a
template.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dan@kallistec.com at Feb
14, 2011 03:27

Any ideas on what to do with SSH keys and Github? copying the key to
Github for each server is rather arduous. Maybe this isn't the correct
way to do it?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by mrpink at Mar 03, 2011
18:08

I was surprised by the **deploy\_revision** resource changing ownership
of everything under **destination** to be owned by **user**.

This doesn't seem to be what I want, for a Rails application. I'd like
shared/logs to be writeable by the user running my rails app, but the
majority of the code should *not* be writeable by that same user. If my
permissions are rw-r-----, then changing ownership to a single-user
makes it difficult to meet this goal.

For now I've added a **before\_restart** block to fix up the
permissions.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by davcamer at Apr 27, 2011
01:47

Will:

I am new to this, so if my answers seems overly simple please say so.
That said, I simply put the private key in template/default and included
this in the recipe that configures the machine that my app lives on:

**Bar.ruby**

    template "#{code_base}/.ssh/id_dsa" do    
            source      "id_dsa.erb"
            mode        "0600"
            owner       "app_owner"
            group       "app_group"
        end

So I am not sure why this would be "arduous". I manage about 20 servers
this way.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by behemphi at May 19, 2011
14:49

Since it's a private key, I'd suggest an encrypted data bag instead of
storing it semi-openly in your chef-repo.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ches at Oct 13, 2011
11:50

Is it possible to have multiple callbacks?  
 I'm using the default application recipe in my setup, but I'm
intentionally not triggering the bundle command, as I have some tasks I
need to perform first.

Application recipe automatically does a deploy\_revision and
before\_migrate block, does this prevent me from doing one of my own in
myApp recipe?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ashr at Nov 22, 2011
23:37

One way seems to be via ssh\_wrapper, although it's a bit messy.
Basically you create a ssh private/public key pair that's used for
deployment only, and enter the public key part in the "Admin" section
the github repo. Then, to use the private key during deployment itself,
you write it to a file, the create an ssh\_wrapper shell script that
uses the key. You can see this being done in the application::php
recipe:

[https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/blob/master/application/recipes/php.rb](https://github.com/opscode/cookbooks/blob/master/application/recipes/php.rb)

(Search for deploy\_key.)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ithinkihaveacat at Jan
29, 2012 22:24
