Hosted Chef
===========

  

![image](../attachments/7274868/14876676.jpg)

Hosted Chef
===========

*(formerly The Opscode Platform)*

### Powered by Opscode’s Chef systems integration software

  

**Sign Up Now and Manage up to Five Nodes Free!**

  
[Sign up now](https://community.opscode.com/users/new) to begin building
automated cloud infrastructure with Hosted Chef, the world's first and
only SaaS platform for automated infrastructure deployment and
configuration management.

  
 Get instant access to a highly available, dynamically scalable, fully
managed and supported automation environment - powered by the experts at
Opscode. Once you sign up and create an organization, you can choose
from several different [pricing plans](http://www.opscode.com/pricing/).

  
***The first five nodes are free!***

Key Benefits:
-------------

##### Speed

**Start immediately and accelerate deployment and configuration
management**

##### Scale

**Deploy from tens to thousands of servers in public and/or private
clouds**

##### Agility

**Roll out complex changes to your entire fleet of servers and
infrastructure**

##### Elegance

**Solve complex problems with simple, dynamic code**

Functionality
-------------

At its heart, Hosted Chef is a centrally managed data store into which
Chef clients publish system information such as IP addresses, loaded
kernel modules, OS versions and more. This data becomes useful across
your entire infrastructure in several important ways:

![image](../attachments/7274868/8060932.png)

### \* **Search-based Automation:**

All the data collected by Hosted Chef is indexed and searchable. You can
then dynamically query this data from within in your recipes to
configure services that require complex configuration. Examples might
include: dynamically discovering a master mySQL server, configuring
nagios, or finding all the memcached servers in a cluster.

### \* **Role-based Access Control:**

Layered on top of this data index is a fine-grained access control
system that allows you to centrally manage the level of infrastructure
access granted to employees, contractors, and other parties. Should
auditors have read-only access to the entire infrastructure? Should DBA
contractors only have access to mySQL slaves?

### \* **Cookbooks Distribution:**

Hosted Chef allows you to centrally manage the cookbooks and roles that
define your infrastructure. When you want to update every Apache web
server in your development environment, just make one change and Hosted
Chef will know where to go to work, whether in your own datacenter or in
the cloud.

### \* **Portability:**

The data stored on Hosted Chef serves as a blueprint of your
infrastructure, making it much easier to create multiple environments
that are perfect clones of your production environment. Examples of this
include QA environments, pre-production environments, and partner
preview environments.

Built to Scale
--------------

Hosted Chef is built from the ground up by Opscode to be fully
multi-tenant and horizontally scalable. In working with Opscode, you
don’t have to worry about the ability of your systems management tools
to meet the growing demands of your infrastructure and of your business.

As configuration management becomes more core to your business, the cost
of maintaining a highly available system only increases. *As you move
from hundreds to thousands of systems under management, Hosted Chef will
gracefully handle the load, with no concurrent increase in management
overhead.*

**When new versions of Chef and the Opscode API are released, Hosted
Chef will immediately be available to you** – data migrations and
backwards compatibility are taken care of for you, virtually eliminating
the work that may be required for major upgrades.   
  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/check.gif)

**Sign Up Now and Manage up to Five Nodes Free!**  
  
[Sign up now](https://community.opscode.com/users/new) to begin building
automated cloud infrastructure with Hosted Chef, the world's first and
only SaaS platform for automated infrastructure deployment and
configuration management. Once you sign up and create an organization,
you can choose from several different [pricing
plans](http://www.opscode.com/hosted-chef/). ***The first five nodes are
free!***

  
  

  
