Backing Up Chef Server
======================

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/2883754/16678914)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/2883754/BackupRecovery.jpg)

### There are three disaster recovery strategies for Chef

1.  ##### Manage Chef objects as code in source control

2.  ##### Export objects from the Chef Server

3.  ##### Backup and restore CouchDB (database)

  
Which method you chose depends on your existing infrastructure. For
instance, if your team is familiar with Chef and development practices
then using the source control method is more flexible and less
susceptible to data corruption. On the other hand, backing up the
database and associated files on disk fits better into organizations
with traditional disaster recovery systems with centralized backup.

Manage Chef objects in Source Control
-------------------------------------

Chef enables the reconstruction of your business from nothing but a
source code repository, an application data backup, and bare metal
machines. With Chef, you define in source code how each part of your
infrastructure is built. Cookbooks, roles, data bags and environments
should be created as JSON files in source control, and then uploaded to
the Chef Server.

Disaster recovery then becomes:

1.  Create new Chef Server using preferred method
2.  Load objects from source control using knife

Using source control also means that previous versions are always
available for restoration and provides a log for auditing changes.

Export objects from the Chef server
-----------------------------------

-   Use this [Knife Exec](Knife%20Exec.html "Knife Exec") script to
    perform a backup of an existing Chef Server:

        cd ~/path/to/chef/repository   
        curl -O https://raw.github.com/jtimberman/knife-scripts/master/chef_server_backup.rb

-   Run the knife exec script

        knife exec chef_server_backup.rb

This will export your data bags, roles, and nodes stored on the chef
server as JSON files within the `.chef/chef_server_backup` directory.
Simply copy that directory and all files within to your backup location,
and you'll have all of the objects that you use within Chef available to
you as JSON files. These files can be uploaded to a new Chef server
using knife.

CouchDB Backup
--------------

![image](images/icons/emoticons/warning.gif)

As indicated in [CouchDB Administration for Chef
Server](CouchDB%20Administration%20for%20Chef%20Server.html "CouchDB Administration for Chef Server"),
the CouchDB database can become quite large over time, so you may want
to use [Compaction](http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/Compaction) on the
database prior to backup. Please review the Compaction section of
[CouchDB Administration for Chef
Server](CouchDB%20Administration%20for%20Chef%20Server.html "CouchDB Administration for Chef Server")
for details if you desire to pursue this prior to backup, and ensure
that you compact the views as well.

A minimal backup consists of configuration files and a dump of the
CouchDB database. For all platforms, locate your database,
configuration, and log files and perform a filesystem copy. Be careful
to preserve file permissions, too. Archive these files to wherever you
want-- ideally on a different machine in a different physical location â€“
with appropriate security limiting access.

For example, here are the directories to backup for a CouchDB install on
Ubuntu:

-   Configuration: /etc/couchdb/
-   Database files: /var/lib/couchdb/
-   Logs: /var/log/couchdb/

You'll want to backup both the .couch database file (which contains many
objects, including the index to the cookbooks) and the directory in
'checksum\_path' specified in your server.rb, which contains the file
contents. One possible example:

    tar -czf /tmp/chef_server_backup.`date +%F`.tar.gz /var/lib/chef /etc/chef /etc/couchdb 
    couchdb-dump http://127.0.0.1:5984/chef |gzip -9c > /tmp/chef.`date +%F`.couchdb.gz

The SOLR [Search](Search.html "Search") index the RabbitMQ queue [Chef
Indexer](Chef%20Indexer.html "Chef Indexer") should be rebuilt upon
restoration.

  
  
  
  

  

There's a python-based couchdb dump tool available in Karmic, too.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by jtimberman at Dec 08,
2009 05:14

Where does chef-server store the repo (cookbooks uploaded by clients?)

On my CentOS installation, /etc/chef/server.rb has this line:  
 cookbook\_path [ "/var/lib/chef/cookbooks" ]

But that directory is empty on the server.

Does the server store cookbooks in couchdb?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by bcle00 at Jan 05, 2011
02:10

The cookbooks are stored in the directory location specified by the
`checksum_path` setting in the config, which would go in
/etc/chef/server.rb.

The default location is /var/chef/checksums, because the filenames are
by the actual checksums of the file. We'll update this page and the
[Chef Configuration
Settings](Chef%20Configuration%20Settings.html "Chef Configuration Settings").

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by jtimberman at Jan 06,
2011 17:10

Parts of the cookbooks, such as the metadata, are stored in the couchdb
database. These objects contain checksums for individual files in the
cookbook such as recipes, where are stored in checksum\_path. You can
find this checksum from 'knife cookbook show COOKBOOK\_NAME
COOKBOOK\_VERSION in the checksum field for the file, and then find it
in the filesystem.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by btm at Aug 12, 2011
23:00

Is there a documented process for reloading couchdb from the
couchdb-dump?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by kevin.duane@disney.com
at Feb 17, 2012 01:11

Thank you for Chef!

Of the three strategies mentioned at the top of this page, are all three
necessary?

The way I am taking it is that you can do complete backup and recovery
by managing Chef objects in a source code repository and backup up that
repository.

I understand that data bags, roles, etc can be created from source code.
But what about nodes and node attributes? Aren't those stored in
chef-server and not in source code? How, then, does that data get
restored?

Some node attributes would be restored when certain roles or cookbooks
are applied, but what about attributes that are assigned to nodes with
the "knife node edit NODE" command? I don't believe those are stored in
source code. It seems that when you would try to restore everything from
source code, node attributes applied by roles would be preserved but
attributes applied directly to roles by "knife node edit NODE" would be
lost. Is that correct?

If it IS possible to backup and restore chef-server only using a source
code repository, is it still necessary to backup and restore CouchDB as
described here?

Thanks again.

Warmest regards,

Ian D. Rossi

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ian.d.rossi@gmail.com at
Mar 02, 2012 16:12

bump

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ian.d.rossi@gmail.com at
Mar 08, 2012 19:51
