Shef
====

Shef: The Chef REPL
===================

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/21397553/21463060)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/21397553/irb_ruby.png)

##### Shef is a way to run chef in an Interactive Ruby (IRb) session. Shef currently supports recipe and attribute file syntax, as well as interactive debugging features.

Run Modes
---------

Shef has three run modes:

-   **Standalone**  
     No cookbooks are loaded, and the run list is empty. This mode is
    the default.
-   **Solo**  
     Shef acts as a chef-solo client. It attempts to load chef-solo's
    configuration file and JSON attributes. If the JSON attributes set a
    run list, it will be honored. Cookbooks will be loaded in the same
    way that chef-solo loads them. Solo mode is activated with the `-s`
    or `--solo` command line option, and JSON attributes are specified
    in the same way as for chef-solo, with `-j /path/to/chef-solo.json`.
-   **Client**  
     Shef acts as a chef-client. During startup, it reads the chef
    client configuration file and contacts the server to get attributes
    and cookbooks. The run list will be set in the same way as normal
    chef client runs. Client mode is activated with the `-z` or
    `--client` options. You can also specify the configuration file with
    `-c CONFIG` and the server URL with `-S SERVER_URL`.

"Hello World" in Shef: A Simple Example
=======================================

*For this example, we'll use the standalone mode.* (For solo or client
modes, you would need to run shef using the `-s` or `-z` command line
options as specified above, and take into consideration the
configuration settings detailed below.)

If chef is installed from gems or your platform's package manager, shef
should be in your path already. (If you are running chef from a git
clone, shef is in `chef/bin/shef`.) To start just run `shef` with no
options. You'll see the loading message, then the banner, and then the
shef prompt:

    $ bin/shef 
    ./bin/../lib/chef.rb:30: warning: already initialized constant VERSION
    loading configuration: none (standalone shef session)
    Loading.......done.

    This is shef, the Chef shell.
     Chef Version: 0.10.4
     http://www.opscode.com/chef
     http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Home

    run `help' for help, `exit' or ^D to quit.

    Ohai2u danielsdeleo@eigenstate.local!
    chef >

  

[Shef: The Chef REPL](#Shef-Shef%3ATheChefREPL)

-   [Run Modes](#Shef-RunModes)

["Hello World" in Shef: A Simple
Example](#Shef-%22HelloWorld%22inShef%3AASimpleExample)

[Client and Solo Modes](#Shef-ClientandSoloModes)

[Configuring Shef](#Shef-ConfiguringShef)

-   [The shef configuration file](#Shef-Theshefconfigurationfile)
-   [Running Shef as a Client Using Your Knife
    Credentials](#Shef-RunningShefasaClientUsingYourKnifeCredentials)

[Managing Chef Server with Shef](#Shef-ManagingChefServerwithShef)

[Debugging Recipes with Shef](#Shef-DebuggingRecipeswithShef)

-   [The Breakpoint Resource](#Shef-TheBreakpointResource)
-   [Stepping Through the Run List](#Shef-SteppingThroughtheRunList)
-   [Debugging existing recipes](#Shef-Debuggingexistingrecipes)
-   [Turn Debugging up to 11](#Shef-TurnDebuggingupto11)
-   [Shef Help](#Shef-ShefHelp)

[Use Case Scenario](#Shef-UseCaseScenario)

  

#### Tutorials from the Community

* * * * *

-   **Shef Tips and Tricks**

Opscode team member [Steven
Danna](http://community.opscode.com/users/sdanna) has put together a
blog post with a number of **[tricks and tools for productively
debugging problems using
Shef](http://stevendanna.github.com/blog/2012/01/28/shef-debugging-tips-1/)**.

Debug Chef-client runs by stepping through a nodeâ€™s run list, breaking
before or after specific resources in order to inspect the state of the
system.

-   **Chef Development With Shef**

How to use Shef, the interactive chef console, for **[iterative cookbook
development](http://blog.mycrot.ch/2012/02/07/chef-development-with-shef/)**
for those times when you just want to experiment without uploading
anything to the server. This is a useful [workflow oriented blog
post](http://blog.mycrot.ch/2012/02/07/chef-development-with-shef/) by
Community Member [Jon
Cowie](http://community.opscode.com/users/jonlives).

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/4620313/21463062.png) Management
Console](Management%20Console.html "Management Console")

[![image](../attachments/4620313/21463061.png)
Spiceweasel](Spiceweasel.html "Spiceweasel")

  
  

  

Could someone throw in some example usages? Just so one can get oriented
enough to start exploring shef?  
 For instance how and where do you run this? Can you run it in a dev
environment (ie not a target chef client, but where you develop your
chef cookbooks) and supply a run\_list or other way to create an
environment that the shef instance runs in?

Or do you only run this on a node and it takes in the node's
environment?

Can you load up some roles and reciepes and then explore them? If so
how?

Some basic idea of why and when and what to do once you enter attributes
mode or recipe mode?

How do you set a "Current Recipe"?

It looks like this tool would help a lot to interactively answer
questions that come up when developing recipes, So any effort to show
how to use Shef would be a big lever in helping people use Chef in
general.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at Jan
14, 2010 22:36

Thanks Daniel that is a great first step.

Is there a way to load roles, cookbooks, attribute files and/or recipes
in standalone mode?

Would you only use client mode on a client node? (I'm trying to
understand how you would use shef while developing cookbooks like one
would us irb while developing ruby code as apposed to debugging a client
node).

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at Jan
16, 2010 00:24

Hi Robert,

There's currently no easy way to load cookbooks or roles or anything in
standalone mode. That's probably a good feature to add, so feel free to
create a ticket for that.

For client mode, it needs to run on a client with valid authentication
credentials. This could be your laptop, a VM setup for this purpose, or
any client node you feel comfortable developing recipes on. There are
some irb plugins that launch your $EDITOR and can ferry code back and
forth from irb to the editor. These /should/ work with shef, though I
have not yet tried them with it.

We're still learning how people want to use shef, so any feedback you
have to offer about how you're using it or would like to use it is
appreciated.

HTH, let me know if you have any more questions.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dan@kallistec.com at Jan
16, 2010 16:48

Any way to use the search interface while in Shef? It would be really
nice to be able to try out different search queries while in the context
of attributes or recipes.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at Jan
25, 2010 22:48

Hi Robert,  
 I haven't tried that yet, but it **should** work in client mode. Have
you tried it and it didn't work? Of course, feel free to bug us on IRC
about it if you can't get it working.

UPDATE: I've done this now and it works fine (in client mode, of
course). Using data bags also works.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dan@kallistec.com at Feb
01, 2010 15:58
