Resources
=========

  
[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/1179732/13238285)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/1179732/resource-definition.jpg)

Overview
========

#### Resources are the basic units of work in Chef - discrete chunks of a system's configuration that are declared in [Recipes](Recipes.html "Recipes") and [Definitions](Definitions.html "Definitions"), and applied to your nodes.

##### They are usually a cross platform abstraction of the thing you're configuring on the host.

For example, packages may be installed via apt, yum, or the BSD ports
and packages systems, but the [package resource](#Resources-Package)
abstracts these differences away so you can specify that a package
should be installed in a cross-platform way.

  

##### This page provides documentation of the Resources included in the Chef library.

##### Each description is broken in to several categories:

  

Category

Description

**Actions**

The list of actions for this resource

**Attributes**

The list of attributes for this resource

**Providers**

The list of providers for this resource, along with any shortcut
resource name. (You can use the shortcut resource name instead of
specifying the `provider` attribute - `apt_package` rather than
`package` with `provider Chef::Provider::Package::Apt`.)

**Examples**

The first section, shows examples of using each action.

  

##### New custom resources can also be created using Chef's [Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP)](Lightweight%20Resources%20and%20Providers%20(LWRP).html "Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP)") DSL. Opscode provides several cookbooks that define custom Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP). [Opscode LWRP Resources](Opscode%20LWRP%20Resources.html "Opscode LWRP Resources") details those customer LWRPs, grouped with the cookbook that provides them.

  

[Overview](#Resources-Overview)

[Meta](#Resources-Meta)

-   [Common Actions](#Resources-CommonActions)
-   [Common Attributes](#Resources-CommonAttributes)
-   [Conditional Execution](#Resources-ConditionalExecution)
-   [Notifications](#Resources-Notifications)
-   [Relative Paths](#Resources-RelativePaths)

[Cookbook File](#Resources-CookbookFile)

[Cron](#Resources-Cron)

[Deploy](#Resources-Deploy)

[Directory](#Resources-Directory)

[Env](#Resources-Env)

[Erlang Call](#Resources-ErlangCall)

[Execute](#Resources-Execute)

[File](#Resources-File)

[Git](#Resources-Git)

[Group](#Resources-Group)

[HTTP Request](#Resources-HTTPRequest)

[Ifconfig](#Resources-Ifconfig)

[Link](#Resources-Link)

[Log](#Resources-Log)

[Mdadm](#Resources-Mdadm)

[Mount](#Resources-Mount)

[Ohai](#Resources-Ohai)

[Package](#Resources-Package)

[PowerShell Script](#Resources-PowerShellScript)

[Remote Directory](#Resources-RemoteDirectory)

[Remote File](#Resources-RemoteFile)

[Route](#Resources-Route)

[Ruby Block](#Resources-RubyBlock)

[SCM](#Resources-SCM)

[Script](#Resources-Script)

[Service](#Resources-Service)

[Subversion](#Resources-Subversion)

[Template](#Resources-Template)

[User](#Resources-User)

[Opscode Cookbook LWRPs](#Resources-OpscodeCookbookLWRPs)

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/1179732/20840706.png) Resources and
Providers](Resources%20and%20Providers.html "Resources and Providers")

[![image](../attachments/1179732/20840705.png) Deploy
Resource](Deploy%20Resource.html "Deploy Resource")

  
  

  

Gem package installs are timing out for me. Could there be an option in
future to adjust the timeout for the package resource, or will the
generic not\_if override the default timeout?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by camelpunch at Sep 29,
2010 15:23

Most versions of ruby-shadow that I have seen (including the popular one
in this cookbook:
[http://github.com/37signals/37s\_cookbooks](http://github.com/37signals/37s_cookbooks))
do not work with Ruby 1.9.x.

I am using this:
[http://github.com/thoughtless/ruby-shadow-cookbook](http://github.com/thoughtless/ruby-shadow-cookbook),
which is a fork of
[http://github.com/biilmann/ruby-shadow-cookbook](http://github.com/biilmann/ruby-shadow-cookbook).

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by
opscode.com@phylae.otherinbox.com at Oct 26, 2010 12:04

Anyone else curious what the difference between manage, modify and
create actions are in the user resource?
[https://github.com/opscode/chef/blob/master/chef/lib/chef/provider/user.rb](https://github.com/opscode/chef/blob/master/chef/lib/chef/provider/user.rb)

Might this be documented? Seems that :manage is simply :modify, but will
silently do nothing if the user doesn't exit (whereas :modify
complains).

But :creates also seems to compare if the user exists, and updates
accordingly, so I'm not clear on how it's different from :modify yet...

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by patcon at Jun 14, 2011
21:55

Ok, scratch that confusion. Here's what I've got:

will...\> create | edit | complain if nonexistent  
action  
 :create – x ----- x ------------ -  
 :manage – - ----- x ------------ -  
 :modify – - ----- x ------------ x

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by patcon at Jun 14, 2011
22:01

Hi, I'm a new Chef user. I like the resource notification system, but it
seems that only allows ***LOCAL*** **resource** **notifications**
(doesn't support remote resource notifications), wright?

I mean, according to this documentation ...

*The basic form of a notification is:*

*resource "name" do*  
*notifies :action, "resource\_type* *resource\_name**",
:notification\_timing*  
*end*

... i understand that you can't specify a remote resource node. If this
is correct, what is the best way in Chef to notify a remote resource?

Thank you very much.

Best regards,

Leandro  

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by leandro at Jun 29, 2011
19:01

Leandro, you right there's no real remote notifications...   
 I'm curious what are you trying to achieve with a remote notification?

For some swift recipes I've written I had to synchronize remote systems.
(a file called the ring file needs to be computed in 1 place and
distributed when ever it changes to all others).  
 my approach was to scp the file around - either push it when it got
recomputed from the source, or pull it when a node was checking for an
updated.

Another possible approach is to store information as either node
attributes or data\_bags.

Both the approaches assume that each machine runs chef-client as a
daemon, and that there's no immediacy required - i.e. that its ok to
pick the change the next interval (10 minutes or so)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by aabes at Jun 29, 2011
19:13

I'm still finding my groove with chef (so maybe someone else can comment
on how much of a bad idea this is) but if its only one node that needs
to run remote notifications on other nodes, perhaps you could make that
node into an admin client, and so write to databags from within its
recipes. Then right after update, you could ssh over to other nodes
(whose identity is perhaps determined through search()) and run
chef-client on-demand to act on the new data\_bag content.

Not sure when solr indexes the new databag changes, so that might be a
caveat.

I'm sure this isn't how chef is intended to be used, and I imagine
there's a more elegant solution, but hey, might get you thinking along
the right lines ![image](images/icons/emoticons/smile.gif)

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by patcon at Jun 29, 2011
19:40

Hi Andi and Patrick, thank you very much for your quick and useful
responses! I'm thinking in how handle clusters configurations with Chef
when a new node is added to the cluster, and therefore I need refresh
the configuration in the cluster's clients. For example, suppose that we
have 2 memory cache servers (i.e running Memcached) in one cluster and
have one (or more) web servers that use these cache servers (in this
scenario the web servers are "clients" of the cache servers). If I add a
third Memcached server to the cluster I will need update the web server
configuration (their php configuration and reload the web servers).  
 I think that the two approachs you suggested can work perfect (the
"push" strategy of use scp/ssh to send/refresh a new configuration or
the "pull" strategy of use data bags and wait until the web servers chef
clients refresh their configurations).  
 Howerver, perhaps the use of notifications is not the best approach in
this situation. Maybe is a too "event-driven" solution and a more
declarative approach could be better. I'm just starting with Chef and
have a lot to learn. Anyway, I'm sure these strategies are very useful
in many scenarios.

Thank you very much again for your help folks!

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by leandro at Jun 29, 2011
20:43

Actually, the scenario you're describing is very similar to what the
swift-proxy code needed to do. down to the memcache servers
![image](images/icons/emoticons/wink.gif)

take a peek here:
[https://github.com/dellcloudedge/openstack-swift/blob/master/cookbooks/swift/recipes/proxy.rb](https://github.com/dellcloudedge/openstack-swift/blob/master/cookbooks/swift/recipes/proxy.rb)

The assumption here is that the new servers can be picked up "soon".
Each server runs this code independently and uses the Chef database to
locate it's friends (in my case each server runs a memcached server as
well.. but can utilize the peer ones). If any new servers are present,
the local configuration is updated, and the service restarted.

Key points here -   
 a) it happens independently on each server, the next time the
chef-client daemon is executed  
 b) chef (server) knows about the roles (and hence capabilities) each
server has. clients can query the server and use this knowledge to self
configure

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by aabes at Jun 29, 2011
20:56

Thank you very much Andi. I read the swift-proxy recipe, is a very good
example. Like I can see, there is no need to use notifications in these
situations. Using roles and searchs is all what I need. Thank you again!

Leandro

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by leandro at Jun 29, 2011
22:20

Actually, Leandro, you pointed out a bug, or at least made me realize
one exists.

Assuming the service in question only reads its configuration when it
starts, the template code should notify the service to restart if
changes were made (Chef is smart enough to only fire the notification if
the template actually changed)  
 I'll put a fix for that in a bit.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by aabes at Jun 29, 2011
22:25

The mode doesn't have to be five digits, it just has to have a leading 0
(zero).

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by smparkes at Jul 29, 2011
17:17
