Attributes
==========

[![image](../attachments/thumbnails/1179784/14057491)](http://wiki.opscode.com/download../attachments/1179784/attributes.jpg)

Overview
========

##### Attributes are [Node](Nodes.html "Nodes") data such as the IP address, hostname, loaded kernel modules, version of programming languages available on the system and more. New attributes can be dynamically added to the node in a variety of ways.  
  
 During the [Chef run](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html "Anatomy of a Chef Run"), the [Chef Client](Chef%20Client.html "Chef Client") saves these node attributes on the [Chef Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server") where they are indexed for [Search](Search.html "Search"). When the [Chef Client](Chef%20Client.html "Chef Client") runs again, it will retrieve the attributes that were saved previously and merge in attributes based on the priority rules described below.

Attribute Type and Precedence
=============================

![image](../attachments/1179784/7208965.png)

There are four types of attributes in order of precedence, highest to
lowest.

-   automatic
-   override
-   normal
-   default

**Write your cookbooks with default attributes, but override these with
role-specific or node-specific values as necessary.**

Chef doesn't provide any way to modify automatic attributes because any
modifications you make will be overwritten with [Ohai](Ohai.html "Ohai")
data on the next run. Review [Automatic
Attributes](Automatic%20Attributes.html "Automatic Attributes") for
those reserved namespaces.

  
  

[Overview](#Attributes-Overview)

[Attribute Type and Precedence](#Attributes-AttributeTypeandPrecedence)

[Attribute Persistence](#Attributes-AttributePersistence)

[Setting Attributes](#Attributes-SettingAttributes)

-   [Precedence](#Attributes-Precedence)

[Cookbook Attributes](#Attributes-CookbookAttributes)

-   [Cookbook Attribute Methods](#Attributes-CookbookAttributeMethods)
-   [Cookbook Attribute File
    Ordering](#Attributes-CookbookAttributeFileOrdering)
-   [Attribute Accessor Methods](#Attributes-AttributeAccessorMethods)

[Environment Attributes](#Attributes-EnvironmentAttributes)

[Role Attributes](#Attributes-RoleAttributes)

[Node Attributes](#Attributes-NodeAttributes)

-   [JSON Attributes](#Attributes-JSONAttributes)

[Automatic Attributes](#Attributes-AutomaticAttributes)

[How to Use Attributes](#Attributes-HowtoUseAttributes)

-   [Usage Best Practices](#Attributes-UsageBestPractices)
-   [Setting Attributes at the Same Precedence
    Level](#Attributes-SettingAttributesattheSamePrecedenceLevel)
-   [Setting a Value Only If the Attribute Has No
    Value](#Attributes-SettingaValueOnlyIftheAttributeHasNoValue)

  

![image](images/icons/emoticons/forbidden.gif)

**Attributes that Aren't**  
A number of pieces of data related to a node are methods rather than
attributes. As such, they cannot be accessed using the syntax for
attributes, but rather must be accessed as method. Important node
methods include:

    node.name
    node.run_list
    node.chef_environment

* * * * *

[![image](../attachments/1179784/20840571.png) Chef
Essentials](Chef%20Essentials.html "Chef Essentials")

[![image](../attachments/1179784/20840570.png) Automatic
Attributes](Automatic%20Attributes.html "Automatic Attributes")

  
  

  

there is a deep merge automatic attributes, right? e.g. if I set a
node.ec2.mykey attribute, in any of my cookbooks and I'm NOT running on
ec2 the test node.attributes?(:ec2) will get semantically incorrect.
right?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by ehaselwanter at Aug 05,
2010 08:54

Is there any way to UN-set an attribute?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by mconigliaro at Sep 22,
2010 20:31

Can I merge attributes? For example, if I want to build an
auth.users.trusted hash that is populated by roles and nodes:

role a  
 auth.users.trusted =\> [ "bob" ]

role b  
 auth.users.trusted =\> [ "sue" ]

node c  
 auth.users.trusted =\> [ "armand" ]

I want the recipe would have access to:

auth.users.trusted =\> [ "bob" , "sue" , "armand" ]

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by opsmason at Oct 12, 2010
18:40

Just use push, rather than assign

role a  
 auth.users.trusted.push("bob")

role b  
 auth.users.trusted.push("sue")

etc...

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by willthames at Nov 01,
2010 10:49

Actually, arrays are handled by the deep merge as you have listed as
long as the attributes in your role are override attributes. I believe
if you were to instead use default attributes, only the attribute from
the first role applied would appear and then only if it wasnt already
set on the node by the recipe's attribute definitions (someone correct
me if I'm wrong on this).

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by mleinart at Nov 17, 2010
05:04

The precedence order given for attribute setting locations is rather
confusing. Firstly, it doesn't specify whether it's ascending or
descending, although this can be inferred from the subsequent table.

More importantly, however, it's rather ambiguous and arguably
contradicts the table, listing attributes set in "cookbooks" as having
lowest precedence, and those set in "nodes" as having the highest. Yet
in the table, nodes **and** recipes have the highest precedence, and
it's just cookbook attributes files that have lowest precedence. Yet
recipes are the main part of cookbooks, aren't they?

Also, it might be helpful to note exactly **how** the attribute type and
location precedences are combined; again, it was only by inference from
the derived table that I could see that type precedence takes priority
over location precedence.

(I'm not editing the page because I'm a total newbie, and am purely
going on the information here; can an experienced user confirm I'm not
talking complete cobblers? ![image](images/icons/emoticons/smile.gif) )

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by urbanautomaton at Jan
26, 2011 18:17

In Chef 0.9.14+ you can use `delete` to remove an attribute.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by dan@kallistec.com at Mar
23, 2011 01:21

Maybe it's a different story when roles aren't involved, but I've been
trying to deal with this for the sudo cookbook, and I didn't find that
override operated this way.

To explain, default was a set in the sudo cookbook, normal was set in
another cookbook, and override was set in my vagrant\_main cookbook. It
seems that just the vagrant\_main override worked (no array merge).

I realize this isn't chef's issue, per se, but for anyone else, tried
using chef.json.merge! in Vagrantfile, and couldn't deal with arrays
either (just json object as a whole).

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by patcon at Jun 19, 2011
22:56

Is there a way to access the value of a node attribute inside and
attribute file? I would like to build up strings in the attribute file.

I would like to do something like this but as far as I can tell it
doesn't work if I override `foo:name` in the role. It always uses the
value for `foo:name` from the attribute file, not from the override.

If I remove the default for `foo:name` from the attribute file the value
is empty even if its set in the role's override.

I have also tried using node:foo:path and that ends up as empty as well.

    default[:foo][:name] = "store"
    default[:foo][:path] = "/var/www/#{foo[:name]}"

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by rberger@runa.com at Jun
20, 2011 07:41

Hi Robert,

You might want to try something like this instead:

    default[:foo][:name] = "store"
    default[:foo][:path] = "/var/www/#{node[:foo][:name]}"

This should work, but you'll want to be careful about modifying this
value from other resources such as a recipe and try to keep it fairly
simple. This is because of the order Chef loads files:
[http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Anatomy+of+a+Chef+Run](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Anatomy+of+a+Chef+Run)

It could be possible to set an attribute in a cookbook, and then try to
read it a few lines later and for this to not be set to the final
attribute. This is because the attributes are not fully converged until
the end.

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by jessica at Jul 07, 2011
01:10

I'm confused by the attribute precedence order:

default attributes applied in an attributes file  
 default attributes applied in an environment  
 default attributes applied in a role  
 default attributes applied on a node directly in a recipe  
 normal or set attributes applied in an attributes file  
 normal or set attributes applied on a node directly in a recipe  
 override attributes applied in an attributes file  
 override attributes applied in a role  
 override attributes applied in an environment  
 override attributes applied on a node directly in a recipe

What I note: default attributes in a role take precedence over
environment, but override attributes in an environment take precedence
over a role.

This seems like either a mistake or something very subtle and
interesting, but no note is made of this apparent inconsistency, leading
me to believe it's a mistake. Is it?

![image](images/icons/comment_16.gif) Posted by
pvspam-opscode@hacklab.net at May 29, 2012 11:18
